## IN THE SUPERIOR COURT FOR THE STATE OF WASHINGTON


Name: Kyle L. Coker  
Age : 34 y/o  
Relationship to parties in this action: Father of Chloe E. Murphy,

I Declare:

I became a father at the age of 21. My first born Katina who is 13 years
of age currently resides with myself in our home in Gainesville,
Florida. I am a self-made businessman owning and operating a moderate
sized pool company for the past 6 years. I currently attend Santa Fe
College (a top ten nationally ranked College) and previously attended
Valencia College (The number one ranked National College) in a continued
pursuit of a Molecular Biology Degree. Prior to my Business and College
years, I was enlisted in the U.S. Navy for a period of 8 years. During
which time I was assigned to the U.S. Marine Corps as a Combat Corpsman
(Medic) serving in multiple engagements and extended deployments during
our country’s War on Terrorism. As record of this I submit my highest
accommodation for Valor in Combat as proof of my service and a testament
to my character, (Exhibit 1).

During my years assigned with the Navy/ Marine Corps combat team I met
Emily Murphy. I was assigned a barracks room shortly after my first
deployment to Afghanistan and LCPL Murphy (at the time) was assigned the
room next to mine. Over the next few years we developed a personal
relationship that resulting in the birth of Chloe Elizabeth Murphy.
Unfortunately prior to her birth I finished my service with the U.S.
Navy and was unable to obtain local employment, due to the impending
economic collapse of our nation, in Southern California. This resulted
in me having to return to my home state of Florida, where my family
still resides to this day, to seek employment opportunities and place
myself within my close knit family support system.

During this period Emily and I remained close and communicated often by
phone, e-mail, and internet video calls. Soon after my daughter’s birth
(Chloe), Emily flew out to Florida to meet my family and to introduce my
daughter to them. She stayed here for a period of five (5) days during
which time we engaged in multiple family activities such as barbeques,
beach trips, and swimming in my family’s pool. I spent the entire time
with her and my daughter and we planned a second visit after Chloe’s
first birthday.

At this point I would like to address a statement made to the courts in
the Declaration of Donna & Richard Mairs. On page 2, line 15 – page 3,
line 2 it is stated that Emily made a trip to Florida and was met with
hostility from my parents and a refusal by myself to see her or Chloe.
This is not true. As evidence of this I submit personal e-mails between
my mother and Emily after her trip labeled Exhibit 2 and Exhibit 3. In
Emily’s own words she admits she was in our home and that she was met
with nothing but kindness and generosity. Also she mentions me spending
time with Chloe in our family swimming pool. I cannot attest as to why
Emily would spin a tale of hostility to her family and loved ones, but
they are just that, made up tales and untrue.

For many months after Emily’s trip we stayed in communication.
Unfortunately there came a time that I moved forward with a special
woman in my life and informed Emily. It was soon afterward that she hit
me with an unjust ultimatum. It was put to me that if I wanted to be a
part of my daughter’s life that I would have to leave not only the woman
I was committed to, but also would have to abandon my life, my children,
and my family in Florida and move to Washington. She was not going to
accept another woman in mine or our child’s life, and that it was time
for me to accept my responsibilities with her and leave the rest behind.
Had Chloe been my only daughter, or even had Emily and I maintained
something more than a plutonic relationship since my departure from
California, I would have considered her demands, but I couldn’t abandon
all that I had worked for so I could move to the opposite side of our
great country where I had no support system in place, or any family.
Also this move would effectively abandon my other two daughters, Katina
and Naomi, who were residing at this time with their mother in Florida.

I was heartbroken that such a demand was made upon me but was forced to
stay in Florida where such demands were not being made of me. I love my
daughter greatly and always have, but at that time elected to be patient
and hope that with time Emily would realize she was asking too much and
allow me to re-bond with my daughter, Chloe. Over the years multiple
attempts were made to re-establish a connection with Emily and Chloe
that could bridge the divide that had been formed between us. Most
attempts were met with open hostility and a reminder that I had made my
decision. This unfortunately impacted my relationship that created the
situation and resulted in my five (5) year girlfriend and myself
separating.

Soon after I moved to Gainesville, Florida where my oldest daughter
Katina had lived for many years and took over as her legal guardian. I
established myself in the community and local college, and over time
have re-established my business in this area. I soon began a
relationship with an outstanding woman and we have cohabitated together
in a 3 bedroom Condo that she owns. We have been raising my daughter
(Katina) together since July of 2013, and are currently in pursuit of a
new larger home in the area with the assistance of a pre-approved VA
home loan in my name.

In December of 2013 I was contacted by a lawyer representing Emily
Murphy and John Dempsey regarding his desire to adopt Chloe. At the time
it had been presented to me that John and Emily had been together for
many years and that he would like to look into adopting Chloe as his
own. This was a difficult decision for me as she was a missing part of
my life, but on the same hand I tried to think about what would be best
for her in the future. It wasn’t until the adoption procedure was halted
by representatives in Washington that I learned that Emily was
terminally ill, and wasn’t expected to survive. Had I been fully
informed of the real situation at the time I would have never
contemplated an adoption by John Dempsey.

Soon after this realization I was contacted by both John Dempsey and
Donna & Richard Mairs legal representatives. This was in an effort to
convince me to sign on to both parties desires to gain custody of my
daughter Chloe. It didn’t take long before I was contacted by a Social
Worker by the name of Camile Johnson. She advised me of growing
allegations and her personal observations regarding the treatment of my
daughter by John Dempsey. She also was greatly concerned about the
lifestyle he was providing for her. As a representative of the
Department of Children Safety I valued her opinion as she is a trained
professional in dealing with these matters and investigations. She
explained to me that Mr. Dempsey was a threat to my daughter’s
well-being and she recommended her removal from his care. It was at this
time that I signed a Voluntary Placement Agreement (Exhibit 4) granting
her permission to remove Chloe from John Dempsey’s care and placing her
temporarily with Richard and Donna Mairs.

At this time I would like to address some other allegations,
accusations, or statements made by parties as to my character, my
abilities as a father, or their observations in this matter.

**Declaration of J. Alece Cox Page 2, Line 17 - 23 **

It is stated by Mrs. Cox that she was able to ascertain Emily Murphy’s
competency. As Mrs. Cox is a legal representative and not a Licensed
Physician I ask that any statements or legal documents obtained and
signed at this time by Emily Murphy be stricken from the records on the
grounds of inability to establish the competency or possible side
effects of continued use of controlled substances by Emily Murphy.

**Declaration of John Dempsey, Page 5 Line 7 - 9**

It is stated by Mr. Dempsey that Emily was an Atheist. She did not want
Chloe to be raised as a Mormon, and strongly wished for Chloe to earn a
post-secondary education. I do not doubt that Emily wanted our daughter
to have a higher education, most all parents do, however the number one
reason Emily and my relationship didn’t progress was because of her
devout faith in the Church of Latter Day Saints where as I am a devout
Christian. Although to any outsider, there is little difference between
the two religions for those of us in them it is like comparing the
Jewish faith to the Christian faith. We were never able to see eye to
eye on these matters and thus came to an end in our romantic involvement
with each other.

**Page 5 line 13**

Although the adoption paperwork may have not been falsified, the
pretense under which I was approached was false. The full situation was
not disclosed to me regarding Emily’s health in an attempt to swindle me
into signing an agreement.

**Page 8 Line 10 – 11**

Mr. Dempsey states that I have no relationship with my daughter.
Although it is true that we have had no recent relationship due to our
separation at the decision of her mother, my daughter and I did have a
relationship prior to that. This does not constitute “no relationship”,
but a strained relationship at no fault of our own.

**Declaration of Lesheana Acfalle**

At this time I would like to draw further attention to Mrs. Acfalle’s
statement. As a home health aide it is her job to care for and report
the lack of care an individual receives. Her entire statement is a
professional observation to the treatment of Emily Murphy so near her
end, and should be held as a statement of character reflecting John
Dempsey’s lack of devotion or emotion for Emily. This also testifies to
his utter lack of capability to care for another individual in need such
as a growing adolescent.

<div id='kyle-yuk'>

It is a shame that Emily Murphy has passed, leaving our daughter behind,
but it is also a new opportunity for my daughter and I to develop an
exceptional relationship. I am a competent and caring father already
successfully raising a daughter to be an educated and productive part of
our society’s future. All I ask is that I have the chance to do the same
for Chloe Murphy. She is my youngest daughter and I love her with all my
heart.

I declare under penalty of perjury under the laws of the state of
Washington that the foregoing is true and correct.

Signed at Gainesville, FL on June 29^th^, 2014

*Kyle L. Coker *

</div>

