Joni Irvin
Pierce County Adoptions
5501 6th Ave
Tacoma, WA 98406

Re:	Custody of Chloe E. Murphy, Child
	Pierce County Superior Court No. 14-3-01631-9

<div id='happened'>

Dear Ms. Irvin:

I represent John Dempsey in 
connection with the pending custody 
litigation regarding seven-year-old 
Chloe Murphy.  You have previously 
met John Dempsey and Chloe's 
mother, Emily Murphy, in connection 
with a petition that had been filed 
for John to adopt Chloe.  As you 
probably know Emily passed away on 
June 1, 2014.

Prior to Emily's death John 
commenced the above referenced 
custody action. Emily joined in 
John's petition and signed separate 
declarations, which have been filed 
with the court, indicating her 
strong support of John's request 
for custody of Chloe.

Prior to Emily's death, John had 
been taking care of both Emily and 
Chloe.  HOSPICE workers provided 
some in-home assistance for Emily, 
but John assumed the laboring oar 
in taking care of Emily and 
assuring that her needs were met.  
As Emily's health deteriorated, 
John provided increasing care for 
Emily to the point that he was 
rarely sleeping.

Additionally, Emily Murphy had a 
POLST that contained a full 
resuscitate clause.  John Dempsey 
did not have the training to 
provide the type of full 
resuscitate care called for by 
Emily's POLST.  John organized 
“respite care,” a HOSPICE service 
that allows care-givers to get a 
break, but Emily’s father Darin 
Murphy, intervened as medical 
power-of-attorney to relocate Emily 
to his home. He posted a POLST by 
her bedside unsigned by any doctor 
that changed her orders to 
do-not-resuscitate. She died two 
weeks later.

Around the time that Emily was 
moved out of the apartment that she 
shared with John to her father's 
home, a HOSPICE worker became 
concerned that John was unable to 
care for Chloe.  He was apparently 
on the verge of collapse from what 
we now know was caregiver fatigue. 
The HOSPICE worker contacted CPS 
about it.  A different HOSPICE 
worker had contacted CPS about 
other concerns regarding John and 
his relationship with Chloe.  
Apparently other individuals also 
contacted CPS.  I have not seen 
those CPS records, however, CPS 
opened a third investigation 
regarding John Dempsey and removed 
Chloe from his care.  CPS placed 
Chloe with her maternal grandmother 
and step grandfather, Donna and 
Richard Mairs.  Kyle Coker, Chloe's 
biological father, authorized the 
placement.  All CPS cases were 
closed with no findings of abuse.

Donna and Richard Mairs 
subsequently intervened the custody 
case, and seek custody of Chloe.  
Kyle Coker has had, at best, only 
minimal involvement in the custody 
case or the related probate case.

In any event, the Mairs have now 
listed you as a primary witness for 
their case.  Since that is the 
case, I want to provide you with at 
least some information pertaining 
to John Dempsey.

Per court order John has had 
supervised visitation with Chloe 
since late June.  John and Chloe 
see each other twice a week for a 
total of six hours.  The visitation 
was interrupted in July.  At that 
time the Mairs obtained a court 
order in the ex parte department 
terminating John's contact with 
Chloe based upon their concerns 
regarding a 46-second video of 
Chloe, Emily and John that neither 
the Mairs nor their attorney had 
even seen. John had about six hours 
notice of the hearing.  
Commissioner Karina Kirkendoll, who 
was not familiar with the case, 
entered the order.

On the day of the hearing 
Commissioner Kirkendoll appointed 
Tracy Burgess as guardian ad litem 
for Chloe.  Commissioner Kirkendoll 
also entered an order shortening 
time so that a full hearing on the 
merits of the Maris' motion to 
terminate John's contact with Chloe 
could be brought before 
Commissioner Clint Johnson, who was 
familiar with the case.

At my request, GAL Burgess viewed 
the video.  At the hearing before 
Commissioner Clint Johnson, GAL 
Burgess reported that there was 
nothing inappropriate on the video. 
Commissioner Johnson entered an 
order reinstating John's visitation 
with Chloe.  The Mairs filed a 
motion to revise that decision.  
Judge Brian Tollefson heard that 
motion and denied it.

John's visitation with Chloe has 
continued to the present time.  The 
Mairs have repeatedly declined to 
allow anyone from John Dempsey's 
family to serve as visitation 
supervisor, so paid supervisors 
from Family Community Services have 
overseen the visits.  John has 
purchased written reports for each 
visit.  There are now over 100 
pages of visitation reports, each 
of which I have filed with the 
court. Throughout these reports 
Chloe refers to John as "Dad" or 
"Daddy" and it is clear that the 
two of them are bonded. These 
reports are not sealed.  You can 
view them on LINX.  However, I am 
enclosing six of the visitation 
reports for your review.  I 
encourage you to read the other 
reports so that you can form your 
own impression regarding Chloe's 
relationship with John.

If you have any questions, please 
let me know.

Sincerely,

COUNSELL, MURPHY & COX, P.S.



J. Alece Cox

</div>


