Welcome to this living document. In this document, I will typically add
sections near the top, and move changed sections up closer to the top,
so you can be comfortable knowing your review of the first few pages is
the bulk of new and revised details.

COUNTER PROPOSAL FOR RESIDENTIAL SCHEDULE
=========================================

Schedule
--------

1.  Every other weekend on Saturday, from 11am to 5pm, supervised.

2.  Every other Wednesday from 5pm, home by 8pm, supervised. (Other days
    OK by mutual agreement.)

3.  Scheduled visit time does not include Chloe’s school events,
    extra-curricular activities events including but not limited to
    sporting events, arts events (acting, dance) or any school award
    ceremonies or programs, which John may attend.

Transportation
--------------

1.  All transportation will involve pick up by supervisor, and return
    by supervisor.

2.  Travel time is not visit time.

Supervision
-----------

1.  Supervisors: To account for illness, scheduling conflicts and the
    like, John Dempsey proposes the following persons to be supervisors:
    Jeris Ockfen, Donna Mairs, Richard Mairs, and Patricia Dempsey. All
    supervisors shall read the psychosexual evaluations of Michael
    Comte, and the risk assessment of Michael Comte. All supervisors
    shall sign the Oath of Supervisor as required by the Pierce County
    Superior Court. All supervisors shall read the GAL Report of
    Susan Kennedy.

2.  A supervisor must see Chloe at all times during supervision, or see
    John when Chloe is not visible. John and Chloe may not sit or lay on
    each other. Any approved supervisor and John can drive Chloe in a
    car before, during, or after any visit.

3.  The supervisor may make temporary parenting decisions during
    visitation and transport.

4.  Darin Murphy shall not be present during any regularly
    scheduled visit.

Milestones
----------

1.  John Dempsey shall participate in behavioral risk management therapy
    with Richard MacLeod, M.S.W. or any other practitioner approved by
    Susan Kennedy. The provider should have collateral contact with
    Donna Mairs and the GAL, and should be provided both psychological
    evaluations and risk assessments and the GAL report.

2.  Concurrent with or following behavioral risk management therapy,
    John will participate in parent coaching, and shall have parent
    mentoring with Jaclyn Natario or any other qualified person approved
    by the GAL, Susan Kennedy.

3.  Subject to approval by the GAL, John Dempsey after he has completed
    the behavioral therapy and parent mentoring may be considered for
    unsupervised visits.

4.  Subject to approval by the GAL, John Dempsey may be considered for
    overnight visits under an expanded parenting plan.

This Agreement
--------------

1.  The terms and conditions of this residential schedule shall be
    included in a court order to be signed by the Hon. Stephanie Arend,
    Judge of the Pierce County Superior Court.

2.  Any terms and conditions in said residential schedule shall not be
    modified absent agreement of the parties, John Dempsey and Donna and
    Richard Mairs, or Order of the Court.

3.  Dispute resolution shall be made by Susan Kennedy subject to written
    request made by either letter or email to Susan Kennedy. Her
    decision may be reviewed on the request of either party on the
    Family Law Motion Calendar, and if necessary, Motion for Revision to
    the Superior Court Judge. Each party shall pay one half of the costs
    of the dispute resolution process charged by Susan Kennedy at the
    GAL hourly rate.

Three promises
==============

-   to be Emily’s last love

-   to raise Chloe

-   to keep Emily's mother Donna in Chloe's life.

Vs. 
====

Don't underestimate the power of these people to be hostile, and to
subvert. There's a whole ideology at work with them. Darin is a cult
leader of his family, Donna is a victim, and uproar, sinister charisma,
hostility, chaos, fear, and emotional starvation are the tools. It leads
to terrible outcomes for their families. But it keeps Darin in charge.

The assertion that Emily was unsafe in our home began at the first
adoption meeting, before the meeting. Later, when she received her death
sentence, Donna thanked me for my help but insisted Emily was unsafe. I
explained she’s safer with me than at Donna’s home. Darin repeated that
the elevator was inadequate. I asked him to affirm Emily had left and
returned to the building in the elevator the previous day and he
responded aggressively that "I won't argue about this with you John!"
Clearly that's true. He just repeated the claim. He didn't make any
sound arguments. The assertion that there’s danger is a national anthem
in this family. It’s how they manipulate people and situations.

Slams on Susan
==============

-   The CNA who reported to CPS was not an RN. Your report is wrong and
    that’s a pretty big difference.

-   Therapist says donna needs help. You say all is peachy; no
    recommended actions needed on Donna’s part.

-   One visit from Jaclin vs. 45 from Charlotte. Aw who cares, right?

<div id='jenny'>
Jennifer Murphy Sex Scandal
===========================

It took me some time to remember what went on in the 1990's in the
family.

The reason I was talking sexually with Jennifer is because the girls
always spoke very sexually explicitly with me. That was strange,
especially for such an obviously very strict family. They complied with
serious strictures, but spoke like sailors, except for Donna. Actually,
they wouldn't swear, almost never, but they would talk about sex
explicitly. Jenny was as vocal as the rest, and as curious as the rest,
which has always been fun (until today!) because Jenny is very
conservative and chaste and really always was, the most religious sister
by far. She sometimes drank and got high as an adult, but was also drawn
to strict moderation. But yep, she always spoke in sexually explicit
terms with me and her sisters.

Emily said more than once that the high libido was the "defining"
characteristic of a Murphy, the essence of one.

I don't know if you have understood, or need to understand, the whole
psychology of Darin Murphy, but Emily said she thought Darin's intense
sexuality was an ingredient in this characteristic of the girls. As
adults and very young adults, and with Emily over many years, the
sisters often spoke of their sexual interest level as very high, and
described this as a characteristic of them as a generation in the
family. They would say "Murphy girls are horny!" I don't know if you
grew up this way, and I did not. I was sexually charged as young people
typically are, but I never thought, "Dempsey kids are horny!"

So a decade passes of this, and wham, it leads to frank conversation in
a wholly chaste long-term friendship. I danced with Jenny as a child,
because I dance. We've danced many times together since. Recently we
danced explicitly as adults at a disco, and snuggled platonically
together to keep warm in a cold apartment in 2012. Of course I danced at
her wedding, too. I know Jenny! As a child and an adult.

The whole family talked sexually. All four girls and basically Darin. I
had forgotten about this detail, because it isn't this way anymore.
Emily once told me she figured the girls were all this way because Darin
had a very high level of sexual energy. Whatever the cause, Murphy girls
loved talking about sex with John Dempsey and each other. And TALKING
has never felt wrong to me. Never did anyone touch, ever, but I had very
sexually specific (not vulgar) verbal relationships with Jennifer,
Sarah, Melissa, and (later) Emily, which they initiated and I treated
with high respect. That was a long time ago, and I had forgotten about
it.

So now I'm off dancing and talking sex with a girl who tries to kiss
me!? It was the only time she ever tried. Jenny (famously) said at age
five, "Mom, how old will John be when I'm old enough to get married?"
Melissa also had a huge crush on me for about a year. I'd be around
after dinner one evening, and everyone's gone to bed, but she's beside
me, not speaking or touching, just looking at me, very happy. She would
clearly appear overpowered by the crush, just gazing on me, kind of
paralyzed. I would smile and sit, eventually hug her and go home. I had
nothing but high regard and deep affection for these girls. I was in
their lives for two decades. Throughout that time, I behaved like the
adult I am.

Further, it has never felt like a challenge to demonstrate respect for
sexual boundaries with my hands and actions. This was not gray or blurry
to me. It would surprise me if any Murphy girl would say I disrespected
them at any moment in my life, or sexualized them at any moment of their
childhoods. In fact it's my feeling that their socialization as sexual
objects for religious causes is a grave harm to them. I was very
conscious of their strict religious environment. And I had both then and
now a strict moral code against any adult sexualizing a child. We all
apparently believed words didn't count. Not explicitly sexualizing
them--society does that constantly with girls, and I've known that for a
long time--but talking explicitly about sex, including experiences.
Murphy girls wanted this kind of conversation all day long.

There's truth, and there's the whole truth. And this story of me and the
Murphys most certainly is...

***F***amily

*L*aw!
</div>

Stalker
-------

Darin emailed me late October, 2004 with many pages of unrequited love
letters from Tim, in his 30’s, who sought Jenny’s hand in marriage when
she was 16. In this same period I stayed on the bus an extra stop to
visit her at home. We both went downtown, her for High School, and me
for a job I had there. She and I were there alone at her home together.
She mentioned this guy Tim. I asked if she liked him and she said not
really. So I said just forget about him, let’s go to the museum
together. That’s the flow how it came together. So Darin certainly
trusted me enough to give me his teenage daughter’s stalker’s intel
file, or that other time he told me Melissa was on crack.

Michael Howard, flaming spitfire attorney
=========================================

A letter he sent Emily (I added **bold**)
-----------------------------------------

**From:** Michael Howard

**Sent:** ‎12/‎8/‎2013 9:08 PM

**To:** Emily Murphy

**Subject:** RE: Change of guardianship

Dear Emily,

I intentionally did not respond immediately because I am busy with other
commitments and I wanted to think about my reply. I also wanted to find
out a little more about what you were thinking, hence my mail asking you
the three questions.

**Shortly after I did your will**, you had the surgery down in
California. Almost immediately afterword **your dad contacted me about
your desire to change the guardian provisions in your will and make John
Chloe's guardian**. Given how sure you were about your guardian
decisions before the surgery, this represented a huge shift. I spent a
significant amount of time talking to Darin, thinking about your
situation and researching the impacts of the type and extent of surgery
you had undergone. I also want to be clear that I communicated with your
father because you told me it was ok for me to do so.

It was my concern that you did not have testamentary capacity so soon
after such a major surgery. I felt that, at a minimum, (1) more time
needed to pass for you to become stable post surgery and (2) it was
important to get a letter from your doctor clearly stating in writing
that you had the mental and emotional capacity to understand and
rationally make such a big change and important decision. Without
additional recovery time and a doctor's letter, I felt it was not
**ethical** to for me to make any changes to your guardian designation
at that time

I have recently spoken with both you and your dad again; before your
e-mails of this last week. What I came away with was that your medical
condition had gotten worse, rather than better, and you were attempting
to schedule another surgery. **You told me that you wanted John to be
Chloe's guardian**. Then a day or so later Darin contacted me and stated
that you wanted to change your guardian designation to he and Mariella.
I was told that John had clearly expressed he did not feel he was an
appropriate guardian and did not want to be appointed. Then I was told
there had been a series of discussions between you, your dad, your mom
and step-dad and John over a long weekend and that, based on everyone
communicating, it had been decided to leave the guardian designation as
drafted in your will.

And now, you contact me again and, again, **John**'s name is on the
table. So here is what I believe to be the best course of action. I am
not willing to do any work on your guardian designation unless there has
been a meeting of everyone concerned and you are all in agreement on who
should be appointed Chloe's guardian. By everybody, I mean you, John if
he's still part of this picture, your dad and your mom and step-dad. If
all of you do not agree on who should be guardian, I will not make any
changes unless you have a doctor's letter stating that you have the
mental and emotional capacity to understand and rationally make a new
guardian designation. If you can document universal agreement of all the
involved people or, absent a universal agreement, provide me with a
doctor's letter, I will help you. If you have neither an agreement nor a
doctor's letter, I am not willing to make any changes to your estate
plan.

Yours Truly,

Michael Howard

A letter I’d like to send him
-----------------------------

Dear Mr. Howard,

Hello. I’m appointed to carry out wishes set forth in the will of Emily
Rose Murphy, which you prepared. I believe files in your possession
specify what Ms. Murphy wished, in concrete language, pertaining to
disputed matters. Delivery of these files could only support your client
in the settling of her estate. Regrettably, you’re delaying this
estate’s closure.

I see parallels with Ms. Murphy’s experience. Your decisionmaking
methodology and intentional delay interacting with Ms. Murphy caused her
distress and required her to seek replacement counsel to complete estate
planning during a painful period of her short life. I’ve attached a
germane email thread. Many medical and legal professionals found your
insistence on either full group consent or a precise medical
determination worthy of criticism. For next time, be aware that the
Mini-Mental Status Examination is the proper evaluation tool in this
circumstance. I encourage you to donate your \$500 fee to the Wounded
Warrior Fund.

Your letter dated xx points out that Ms. Cox and I have presented
different requests. Ms. Cox can clarify the scope of her information
request, which is limited to her fiduciary responsibility. My own query
spans all executor agency power. I’ve attached my previous signed
request, and clarify its scope here:

-   Every communication involved in preparing the Estate and Will,
    including meeting agendas and logs, notes, such as hand-written
    notes, and a log of all parties present for the procedures
    associated with preparation of these Estate and Will documents.

-   Content and metadata of all emails and calls made to and received
    from Emily Murphy, and to and from all other parties contributing to
    the preparation of her Estate and Will in any capacity.

-   Emails can be passed to me as a comprehensive digital bundle of all
    communications both to and from all parties. For telephone calls,
    please specify the time, duration, and initiant of each call, and
    summarize each call’s topics and details.

-   This request is not limited to services provided prior to Ms.
    Murphy’s death. Please enumerate all communications involving Ms.
    Murphy’s estate in your practice both before and after her passing.

The specifics of the wishes of Ms. Murphy on matters now in dispute are
of premier importance. I wish to close this estate for its beneficiary,
so rush your reply, and I’ll rush mine.

John Dempsey

P.S. I’ve attached the deposition of Darin Murphy, in which you are
mentioned.

cc: J. Alece Cox, Todd Tuell, Eileen Petersen, Dr. Natalie Dong

Attachments:

Letters Testimentary

Signed Request

Email from Emily Murphy

Deposition of Darin Murphy

------

Natalie Dong, Ph.D., ABPP is Director of Center for Polytrauma Care at
the Puget Sound Health Care System (V.A.). She specializes in brain
injuries. Dr. Dong studied your email (attached) at length. According to
Dr. Dong, competency is a legal status, not a medical one. In her view,
your relationship with Darin Murphy represented a clear conflict of
interest, regardless of Emily Murphy's consent to the relationship.

I am the personal representative who holds the decedent’s
attorney-client privilege. the attorney-client privilege lasts as long
as a personal representative is in place. It remains effective during
the administration of the deceased client’s estate and during the
resolution of claims by or against the estate.

attorney-client privilege does not apply to “a communication relevant to
an issue between parties all of whom claim through a deceased client,
regardless whether the claims are by testate or intestate succession,
nonprobate transfer, or inter vivos transaction.”

As the deceased's legal representative the executor has a variety of
duties, obligations and powers with respect to the estate and the
beneficiaries. In fulfilling these duties and obligations, the executor
must be wary of issues and liabilities such as breach of confidence
claims, privacy issues, claims of breach of duty in relation to any
trust document preventing disclosure and allegations by beneficiaries of
a failure to protect the assets of the estate.

Hanson Email Re: Sarah, a CFS employee
======================================

From: J. Dempsey, Date: 10/2/2014 10:49:21 PM, To: CFS, Subject: Btw
regarding observers

If my schedule is likely to result in Sarah, I'd appreciate an
opportunity to reschedule.

And reports please.

Regards

John

On Oct 3, 2014 4:12 AM, "CFS" &lt;info@communityfamilyservices.com&gt;
wrote:

We are unable to guarantee that a particular supervisor will always be
available. Rescheduling visits will not guarantee that a particular
supervisor will be available.

What is your basis for not wanting Sarah supervising?

J. Dempsey <mcfnord@gmail.com>, 10/3/14, to CFS

I have quite a few concerns about Sarah. I have a team that reads every
report. Here's feedback from one of my team members, a retired police
officer, about Sarah's reports:

"As a report it is a complete failure as there is an apparent lack of
direction in the report. If the purpose of the report is to characterize
the relationship between Chloe and Mr. Dempsey in a supervised setting
('These observations are of parent-child contact which occurred in a
structured and protected setting.') there is way too much intrusion by
the supervisor (observer making observations) who is in the role of an
observer and not as a 'cop.' I taught report writing in the law
enforcement academy before the WCJTC took the process under tow. Any cop
worth his salary knows his report has a purpose. In my years as a field
training officer the supervisor would have been relieved of duty and
asked to return to the manual to review some basic principles. When
Chloe gets peevish because she doesn’t get her way those in charge must
deal with the behavior. The geography of that encounter is completely
misunderstood by Sarah. There is never a discussion of either the
etiology of the unacceptable behavior or some appropriate supervisory
dialogue on how to avoid such situations in the future. She is trying to
be important but I suspect nobody has told her what that means."

The woman who accompanied us at the zoo also trains in report-writing
for emergency responders, with about 30+ years of experience. She said
Sarah appeared bored, and during a critical emotional incident Sarah
kept interfering. Her interventions fanned a negative behavior Chloe has
learned from grandma, that of making an uproar by obstruction. The
trainer also considered Sarah's attire to be inappropriate.

I am a professional writer. I read most reports many times, but can't
read Sarah's. Sarah's reports lack a clear understanding of audience and
purpose. They cover irrelevant details and miss important ones. I want
to avoid needing Sarah as a witness in the March trial, because I have
not seen indications that she could speak to my skill in parenting this
child. My particular recollection from the Zoo was when Chloe said, "I
would feel so sad if I couldn't see you," and I wondered quite aloud if
that would be in the report. It wasn't. Not every detail is. But the
fact I "rode a slug" on the merry-go-round is, and the exact way I
carried a cranky Chloe got documented in detail I must call lurid. Call
my reaction visceral and subjective, but as a professional writer I feel
sick realizing I'm paying for that writing. Meanwhile I fully endorse
the report-writing skill of the other 3 supervisors I've worked with.

We considered passing on the reports when she supervises, but since our
legal position is transparency we should not pass.

So we schedule further in advance and if I knew both Charlotte's and
Sarah's days off I would have even more to work with.

I hope this clarifies.

Regards,

John

The poetry of John Dempsey
==========================

Some poems I wrote. I’d like peace in lousiana and Petal Terror to be
poetry examined by the jury in my defense. The allusion to global war in
Coasting cannot be denied.

**gasoline accident**

Dec. 30th, 2006 at 10:19 PM

pour in the sliver fuel, red can, ignite.

carve initials into pavement, anxious to roll.

cave man delicious.

instead temptations

my lips bleed

quiet islands

in my recliner.

**\
fed bubblehead**

Oct. 3rd, 2006 at 1:39 PM

Lately everything seems a dream,

for real,

illusion,

heat off gas fumes.

Lately I wonder what direction I'm in,

blissed til i'm sick

I wonder if

I should just change channels,

take a helicopter ride,

commit public indecency

in a foyer fountain.

**Coasting**

Sep. 19th, 2006 at 11:08 PM

I rode around the city

singing rock and

swerving poetic concrete curbs and

wondering hysteria.

Planning, you know, World War III

Remembering how to live

Hoping deep dreams as stoplights topple over across

the smooth streets from

Bauhaus to Westlake to

Zymogenetics.

**\
Petal Terror**

Jul. 28th, 2006 at 4:35 AM

I'm gonna plant perennials

in front of your house

while you're sleeping.

Then I'll dot public pathways

with painted daisies

and daffodils.

I'll festoon the feet of the trapped trees downtown.

I'll terrorize there with flowers, too.

Others will join me.

And soon momentum of lawless blooms

will overcome all efforts to resist.

It'll be anarchy.

**\
Dream**

Apr. 8th, 2006 at 4:48 AM

I dreamed about Cindy

disrupting recruiters

as they tried to pitch

the wars.

as poets write

i was alright

handcuffing couplets

i held her hand in the theater while

she released

clacky green Frankenstein heads

and ping pong balls

and made cat calls with a

Brooklyn brogue.

as poets went

i paid the rent

candybar cadances

nutbars of notions

She had slingshots of parachutists

A bottomless bag of tricks

We were grownups

all the more reason

to throw Marines

off their game.

as poets go

i was so-so

grain silo piles of prose

**\
Hawks' Prayer**

Jan. 28th, 2006 at 12:45 AM

The bullish force of us on history,

all actors in community and

car crashes together, this beast-slayer,

Seahawk.

Falconers, scavengers,

middens of fish guts,

log boom and mariner of

founding, rugged Whitey.

Let your space saucer

touch down

Let your destiny be

burning anarchy,

Starbucks Coffee,

And footballing.

**Billboards**

Dec. 16th, 2005 at 11:55 PM

Bring to my hands the crayons,

cheap cheese of closeout sales,

mad drugstore markdowns and

acres of thrift.

Bring me the irregular cuts,

brand names at closeout prices,

retrolutionaries in awkward specs and

Clara-Bell lock curls

poised on platorm shoes,

hair so long and manageable

sell armani with a sexy white smirk.

**\
peace in louisiana**

Sep. 10th, 2005 at 3:18 PM

All the distractions of a failed oil man

convinced it's answered prayers

slash and hurtle America to destruction.

Terrorists, hurricanes, and

how we respond are separate

domains.

Nuke Mecca, that will show them

the means we'd willingly go to

from our fat butts in Congress

to our cigar snifter elite

Who wouldn't even smell

the burning flesh of WWIII

"over ther

Correspondences of Emily and John
=================================

Nov 1, 2013
-----------

**From:** John

To Remember

We remember singing with Mom.

We remember parks, camping, swimming.

We remember her dark eyes, smile, kisses.

We miss each other when apart.

We miss Mom's dark eyes, smile, kisses.

Let's admire, stock up for later, you and me.

**From:** Emily

Love it

Dec 10, 2013
------------

**From:** John

Hi, Emily.

I still need to do a few things in the Seattle apartment before January.

I talked with Harry and Rachel about my fears and hopes. Of course I
fear that things might fall apart. But I should also think about things
going well for us 3.

I think it's critical that we build trust. Our relationship is warm and
we have fun together. We are friends. We can't just battle when we
disagree like we have in the past. We can't just push for changes that
don't make sense. We need to listen and communicate. We have to try to
cooperate even when we disagree. Drugs and alcohol can make that much
harder. Living together better sound like a square and serious
challenge, not a party.

I don't support anything crazy. I can't. I can't just jump in the truck
and sneak into your house at night. I can't keep you up late. If you are
not healthy, rested, and nourished, guess what: You can give doctors
doubts. Priorizing lust and making teenager choices can wreck
everything. So I am going to be a hardass. I hope you understand why.

There are many goals we must accomplish when we move in together. I
Can't Fuck It Up. Like, I could ignore my feelings until they explode. I
could fail to build a network of supporters and helpers. You or I could
drown in drugs or alcohol. There are plenty of ways to fuck this plan
up. We must stay focused on very serious needs.

And there are logistics. I absolutely oppose any junk in the apartment.
The space there is for people, not crap. How can we achieve this? It
could be wise to throw all your property into a storage unit nearby, and
then pull out just the things you find essential. What do you think of
that idea?

I look forward to this new chapter in my life. I hope we approach this
with honesty and maturity. I know you are excited and that's great. But
please size up the very serious aspects, of our emotional needs, our
long-term needs, and such. I want us to have fun. The only way we really
can is if we are being honest with each other, respecting each other,
and building trust.

Love and hugs, warmth and quiet time cuddling, from your friend,

John

**From:** Emily

Johnny juanny,\
That's a long ass letter. Why don't you come over for breakfast and talk
about it 😊\
Emily

2014 Text Messages
------------------

These text messages accumulated on my phone. I would like to show you
the many previous years, as that was the main way we communicated.
However, those aren’t on my phone, and AT&T claims they don’t save them.

![](img/bk-imgs/image1.png){width="4.322916666666667in"
height="3.1458333333333335in"}

![](img/bk-imgs/image2.png){width="4.510416666666667in" height="5.1875in"}

![](img/bk-imgs/image3.png){width="6.270833333333333in"
height="5.260416666666667in"}

![](img/bk-imgs/image4.png){width="6.25in" height="4.479166666666667in"}

March 31, 2014
--------------

**From:** John

**To:** Nicole Barrett, Madigan Oncology

**Subject:** Sgt. Emily Murphy

Hi, Nicole.

The condition of Sgt. Emily Murphy (last 4: 2539) has worsened.

She is much weaker. She has very little stamina. She can only get up
sometimes without help. Thankfully she does not fall much, but has
fallen due to weakness in the bathroom.

She is very sleepy, but does wake up, especially in the evenings.

Her left hand is now numb.

She lacks bladder control. She also can't pee sitting down so well as
when she is standing, which makes trips to the bathroom frustrating.

Her vision is going double (I believe) occasionally, and she cannot
focus at these times. At these times she may be prone to nausea and has
vomited. She said one eye seems to be bulging.

She reports that she is occasionally "very dizzy".

Headaches are more frequent.

We have gotten her a walker and a wheelchair. We believe a bar by the
bed and perhaps one in the bathroom can contribute to independence.

Tricare has marked the request for in-home occupational therapy as
"pending". We are waiting for this approval.

I will be with Emily in the Oncology department Thursday, April 3rd, at
1:30pm. I hope to see you then.

Regards,

John Dempsey

206-384-5335

Chloe and John
==============

Milestones: I have been present for her first independent swing ride,
first ride down a slide, first full trip across the monkey bars. \`at
every birthday party since she turned 2, where I typically played a
central role operating the pinata and providing gifts and food. I taught
Chloe to swim, ride a bike, and use the toilet (with Emily). I was
present when her first, second, and third teeth fell out. I have
attended every open house for Chloe's school, from pre-school to
Kindergarten to First Grade. I have taken Chloe to 4th of July overnight
camping every year since she was 3. I have taken Chloe to Christmas Eve
overnight at my sister's since she was 3, and consistently attended
Christmas and Thanksgiving events in Donna's home. I have taken Chloe
and Emily to my brother's daughter's birthday parties at Gasworks Park
in Seattle since she was 3. I have been with Chloe during 3 New Years
celebrations and 5 family wedding ceremonies. I attended Chloe's only
violin recital. At most family events I spend most of my time with Chloe
and her mother, Emily.

Fact Errors in the GAL Preliminary Report
=========================================

Bleak, Barren Hellscape? Or Bountiful Estate?
---------------------------------------------

-   The Dempsey residence has these flower varieties: Grace Ward
    Lithodora, Golden Lythrum, Wandering Jenny, Azalea, Rhododendron,
    Pansy, Heather, Sunflower, Wallflower, Bearded Iris, Rose, Daylily,
    Tiger Lily, Dandelion, Daffodil, Buttercup, Common Bluebell,
    Shamrock, Forget-Me-Not

-   We also grow a large harvest of vegetables and spices.

-   See our comfortable, fenced back yard! Why did you not notice it, if
    fences are of concern?

G.A.L. Shows Bias
-----------------

Ms. Burgess insisted on seeing my bedroom, but not Donna’s. Ms. Burgess
told me she got a case into trouble by failing to see every room in the
house. Once I looked in Donna's room and thought, "This is a sign of a
screwed up brain." It made me feel very uncomfortable.

Mairs Home
----------

-   Treacherous entrance to back door. Mr. Mairs can’t get rid of stuff
    cuz a lot was a gift from his dad. – I HIT ON THIS IN THE INTERROGS
    SO FUCK THIS

-   Little work gets done on the property. – maybe I said this in the
    rogs

-   Chloe does not have her own bathroom in that residence. – YES WORTH
    STATING

Donna and Richard over the years
================================

-   Donna complained to me when I was about 21 that Darin did not spend
    adequate time with his children, and asked me to discuss it
    with him. Bettina told me that her dad basically thought Darin was a
    terrible dad. Ask Bettina to repeat that!

-   In 2013 Donna filled a stocking for me for Christmas in their home.

-   Carlos, Emily had her doubts about Richard’s parenting *bona fides*.
    There was something about a girl he raised until she was 13? Or
    starting age 13? I’d like to know the details of his relationship
    with this child or adult child. Where is she now? Does she call?

-   Donna accepted the term ‘Dad’ for me around Chloe fairly early on.
    She only stopped using the term around the time the police came to
    return Chloe to Emily.

-   Around October I asked Donna if she trusted me, and she said
    she does.

-   I sat with Uncle Willy at the wedding of Donna and Richard, and
    sang karaoke. (Not an actual uncle. I was Uncle John for the
    4 daughters!)

-   Richard Mairs plays video games and watches home improvement
    programs a lot on TV. I have only rarely seen Richard leave his
    recliner, usually for dinner.

-   There's something Emily told me about Richard's parenting
    experience, that it was soft, and/or that he is sort of afraid of
    children, at least small children, fearing they'd break. Well
    I understand.

-   I’d like to know what video games Richard has played, and what home
    improvement tasks he has completed in 2015.

Shame
-----

Donna often seems derailed by guilt and blame feelings toward herself
and others. After spending time with Donna, Chloe repeats complex,
troubling explanations of guilt and shame she claims to feel, and
asserts that I should also feel. She often cries while explaining why
she and others are victims and perpetrators of shame patterns.
Eventually after returning from Donna's care, Chloe escapes these
twisted explanations after crying briefly.

-   -   ![](img/bk-imgs/image5.jpeg){width="6.761111111111111in"
    height="5.0in"}

-   A friendly moment with Richard, Alice, Chloe, and me.

2011-ish
========

![](img/bk-imgs/image6.jpeg){width="5.201461067366579in"
height="6.935281058617673in"}

Under the tree at Chloe’s birthday. I brought the most gifts. Every
time, I brought the most gifts.

![](img/bk-imgs/image7.png){width="7.3284722222222225in"
height="5.836111111111111in"}

Here’s Fatima, Darin’s adopted daughter, telling Chloe this photo is
beautiful. This is Chloe at my sister Jan’s house for Christmas Eve,
where she went every year.

I bet Darin started not liking me right around the Dash Point Park
camping trip. That was around 2011 I think. And I suspect Emily was the
reason, but Emily’s money became a bigger reason, and then going bonkers
became its own reason.

2012
====

I speculate a guess that I took Chloe from Donna’s church after a
Christmas celebration where Donna played bells. I took Chloe to Seattle
after that event.

![](img/bk-imgs/image8.png){width="7.895833333333333in"
height="4.623611111111111in"}

I bring pumkins!

When Emily turned 30, we all ate at Johnny Bahama’s in Southgate Mall. I
ate a little and Chloe and I ran around the empty parking lot.

Once Emily cooked salmon at Donna’s and Darin and I ate it.

Darin ate sushi on 6^th^ ave with Emily and me pretty recently, perhaps
early 2013.

It was 2012 or 2013 when I bought Donna lunch on Broadway in Seattle. It
was Thai food. Emily was with us. Donna sold me a fundraiser chocolate
bar for Stanley Elementary.

2013 
=====

In Spring, 2013, Donna drove Emily and Chloe to Seattle Center to meet
me, and left them with me.

donna invited me to sleep at her house so i could attend the "Ethnic
Festival" in the park the next day.

in her kitchen, i asked donna if she trusted me. she said, "call me old
fashioned, but an adult man shouldn't take a bath with a little girl." i
told her the bath was 18 months ago, and asked again if she trusted me.
she said she did. Later, Donna would call me a child, shattering Emily’s
trust. Donna already promised to keep me in Chloe’s life, and yet she
called me a child? Emily was pissed.

in 2013, donna loaned her car to me twice, both for overnight camping
with emily and chloe. once was 4th of july, for two nights, and once was
a month or so later, for one night, at the beach.

Father's day in 2012 or most likely 2013, I had planned to take Chloe to
a couple's home in Olympia. No one answered at Donna's home. I called
Donna's sister who said Donna was probably at church. On that day, Donna
addressed her church congregation about the traits of a good father. I
thought Chloe might be with her. I went to Donna's church and found
Donna. Donna said Chloe was at Darin's home. I drove to Darin's home to
get Chloe.

Later Emily awoke from her nap and called me to say she was energetic
enough to join us on the trip.

Bridges happened consistently because I made it happen
------------------------------------------------------

Since Emily asked me in April, 2013 to attend the monthly BRIDGES: A
Center for Grieving Children program, I have attended nearly all monthly
programs with Chloe and Emily. Donna Mairs stopped attending BRIDGES
regularly in December, 2013. I have never seen Richard Mairs attend the
BRIDGES program. How closely are they attending to Chloe's needs now and
in the future if they do not attend this critical program for her
emotional wellness during this transition?

2014
====

-   January 25^th^ at hospital, Donna expressed remorse to me that she
    had said mean things about me during the 2nd adoption meeting,
    exclaims, “People say your love is better than mine.” I assure her
    that’s impossible.

-   February, Donna visited our home with one or two of her daughters.
    Donna said, "thank you for taking care of emily," and gestured to
    offer me a hug. I rose from the couch and we hugged.

-   On June 20^th^, 2014, Chloe asked, "Why won't you give back mom's
    phone?" Chloe explained that someone on Emily's phone had a horse
    (which I had never heard before, and am not aware of any horse ride
    previously), and that due to my possession of the phone, she was
    unable to "ride a horse rather than thinking about mom's death." I
    am executor of Emily's estate, with legal obligations that should be
    clear to the adults involved. Previously Darin Murphy had exerted
    substantial pressure to gain control of this telephone. I have never
    received any request for this contact’s information. An adult
    introduced this explanation to Chloe, abusing her in the conflict
    while also alienating me from her.

-   During the visit to the Puyallup Fair on September 10^th^, 2014,
    Chloe told me, “Grandma says you aren’t really family.” When I asked
    Chloe what she

-   thinks, she said she was not sure if I am family, but went on to say
    she wished to reside with me.

-   During a visit in Downtown Tacoma, on October 9^th^, 2014, Chloe
    said Donna had claimed I had voluntarily delivered Chloe to Donna
    because I was unable to care for her for “that week”. I said that
    was untrue. Chloe became upset and responded, “Grandma is trying to
    make me not like you! Why? Why is she doing that?” I told Chloe I
    did not know, and that she needed to ask Donna why. Charlotte
    observed and participated in the conversation.

-   I called police twice with regard to the custody of Chloe. The day
    before the first call to police was April 11, 2014. Donna Mairs
    (Emily’s mother) picked Chloe up from school but did not bring her
    home as agreed. I called and she answered but then we
    were disconnected. Immediately, I called again and nobody answered.
    Immediately I called again. Donna then asked if Chloe could stay the
    night, but I declined. I picked Chloe up and returned her home.

-   At the start of 2014, Donna explained that the purchase of Richard’s
    truck was financed based on overtime pay, which had
    since disappeared.

-   Emily told Donna about Emily's plan in January, 2014. Donna claimed
    I was too old to raise Chloe. Huh?

-   Donna appears to fear Howard Dempsey, who she knows to be a retired
    junior high school teacher:

    From: **CFS** &lt;info@communityfamilyservices.com&gt;\
    Date: Wed, Dec 3, 2014 at 4:55 AM\
    Subject: Dempsey Response\
    To: John Dempsey &lt;mcfnord@gmail.com&gt;

    Christine, I had a question about the report on11/23 with Charlotte
    at the home of Howard Dempsey. Charlotte states that Howard went
    down stairs to watch sports on TV and Chloe followed shortly after.
    Mr Dempsey finished cooking the rice and we too returned downstairs.
    Did she leave Chloe alone with Howard downstairs?. I just want to
    make sure that Chloe is not to be left alone with anyone while at
    a visit. Let me know. \[Christine’s response:} CFS follows the
    person being supervised, not the child.

Rejection of entire family
--------------------------

With the exception of visitations that take place at my mother's home or
my uncle's home, Donna repeatedly rejected my requests to have my adult
family members share my visitation with Chloe; she even refused to let
them transport Chloe for visitation. This includes my father, Herb
Dempsey, who is a former police officer and educator.

Yelling at Donna
----------------

The two times in my life I raised my voice to Donna Mairs both occurred
in 2014. Emily didn't like it either time.

1\) At BRIDGES grief therapy, after the program, Donna began asking me
questions about Emily's care. Her tone was accusatory. Emily and I had
moved in together only recently. I think the questions had to do with
our bed. It didn't have a boxspring for a while. I asked Donna why she
was asking me these questions. She said since I'm the care-giver, I was
in charge.

I said, "Emily is right here. Why not ask her?" This made Donna angry.
She insisted again I'm the care-giver, I have to be in charge. As she
walked away, never getting answers to her questions, I said louder,
"Emily is standing right here! You can ask her directly! You should ask
her questions about her choices and situation."

Darin herded his two wives out the door and gave me the evil eye.

2\) At Madigan hospital Emily and I were trying to get a urine sample in
the restroom. Donna came in. This was the day Emily was given two months
to live. Her cellular phone rang and I answered. The caller asked where
Emily would be receiving hospice care. I specified our address near
Wright Park. Donna became accusatory. "Is that what Emily wants?" Emily
confirmed many, many times it is what she wanted, but Donna operates on
a wishful notion of other people: When they agree, they're good. When
they disagree with her plan, there is something wrong going on. I asked
sarcastically, but sincerely,

"Donna, do you think Emily wants to live with her parents?" Then I asked
Emily if she wants to stay at home for hospice, and she said she did.

In the meeting with the doctor, when Emily was given two months to live,
Darin invited me to move into his home along with Emily and Chloe.

Alienation effort against my family
-----------------------------------

On June 20^th^, Chloe said, “"Grandma says I can't see you and I can't
see anyone in your family, not even Epona!" Donna Mairs also prohibited
Howard Dempsey from attending the visit on that day at his own home. On
October 1^st^, Chloe explained that Donna prohibits all adult members of
my family from attending visits, unless the visit occurs on their own
property. Chloe stated that she wished they could attend. I agreed to
keep asking Donna to approve any adult member of my family. On about
five occasions since, I invited Donna to choose an adult member of my
family to attend a visit, or invite Chloe to choose. Donna first chose
Epona, a 13 year old. When I explained that Epona was not an adult,
Donna prohibited any other family members from attending. Once I failed
to explicitly prohibit Epona from being chosen, so Donna chose her
again. On November 8^th^ Chloe explained that Donna’s strictness is
rooted in not wanting Chloe exposed to any “bad influences.” I continue
requesting the GAL to overrule this hostile effort to destroy
relationships Chloe developed with Emily’s full support over 5 years,
which I can substantiate with strong photographic evidence. I also
strongly object to the characterization of my family as full of “bad
influences,” **especially in conversations with Chloe Murphy**.

My biological family regularly took Chloe to the park, zoo, and
mountain, or just played with Chloe while I cared for Emily. I have no
reason to believe they are a bad influence on anyone, and Chloe misses
them.

I’m not so impressed by their household
---------------------------------------

Outside Donna's home, a pathway lined by dangerous refuse and rusted
metal is used daily to pass to and from the back door to the front of
the house. Significant falling danger places children and adults at risk
daily. This dangerous condition has persisted since at least 2010.

Richard plays video games and watches home improvement t.v. all day. I
have only rarely seen him leave his recliner. Richard has many tools and
is handy in his work at U.P.S., but his house includes only half of a
major remodel but I have not seen progress on it since activity ceased
prior to 2010.

Neither Donna nor Richard have energy Chloe needs. I have a large body
of photos showing Chloe engaging with me in outdoor activities,
including swimming, boating, hitting a birthday pinata. I have not seen
Donna or Richard engage in these activities with Chloe, either directly
or through photographs. In birthday photos, Donna Mairs sits on the
grass whole Chloe and I play with the pinata.

Donna is diabetic, and requires constant insulin through a machine. She
is often lethargic, and seems disconnected from conversation. She also
seems emotionally disassociated.

Convicted Violent Child Rapist, 3 Counts
----------------------------------------

Sarah exposed her daughter Ally to a sex offender who targets children.
This man sexually assaulted Ally. Later, in Donna's home, Ally sexually
assaulted Chloe at least twice, in the bath and the attic, according to
Emily. I am not aware of any action taken by Donna Mairs to prevent the
sexual attacks in her home.

Jenny dated a felon imprisoned for nonconsensual, “violent” sex abuse of
a minor or minors. Donna welcomed this man into her home even when Jenny
was not present, as a dinner guest. This caused me substantial distress
with Chloe in the home.

Around 2010, Donna and Richard Mairs financed a major home remodel using
credit cards. The remodel was not completed. Substantial debt remained
into 2011 and likely remains today. In a meeting in Fall 2013, Darin
expressed concerns that benefits earned by Emily's Marine service
intended for Chloe would instead finance Mairs home debt. The Mairs home
is large. It has housed 6 people. It now houses 3.

Abusive by nature
-----------------

I witnessed Donna shame Chloe in May, 2014 over a minor detail
discrepancy that Chloe could not have known: I said I would call her
teacher but met with her instead. Donna interrogated Chloe about this
discrepancy, even though Chloe had no way to know I had changed the
contact approach. Chloe was visibly frightened by this interrogation. I
believe she was expected to feel ashamed for an error she had no
awareness of. I believe this shame is part of a pattern Donna uses to
control juveniles. I believe this tactic has caused substantial harm to
juveniles she has raised.

Donna shows hostility toward me in front of Chloe in ways Chloe finds
very distressing. My attempts to reach out to Donna have been
unsuccessful. Chloe describes "being in the middle" as a terrible
feeling. I do not criticize Donna or any other family members in front
of Chloe.

Welcome to Darin
================

He stands on no principles but greed and a craving to control and own
money and people. A sociopath is changed by severe childhood abuse to
simulate feelings in order to get what he wants from people. Emily
characterized Darin as "really screwed up". Here's a video of Mr. Murphy
being tasered:

A sociopath often has unusual relationships with pain.

Darin loves Emily and that’s the problem
========================================

Notice Darin came to Donna's with a card about Emily the Marine service.
Darin is at the mercy of his feelings toward Emily. That's probably 90%
of what's driving Darin. Chloe was a dollar figure, and a prize, and by
defeating me, he avenges what he saw as my sleight of Emily, even though
he does so at the cost of Emily herself.

He had her love and trust because he helped her medically, but then he
opposed her wishes for Chloe, and the trust she had given him was
rapidly destroyed. He did this. I imagine it hurt, to be so stupid. But
he loved Emily, in an incredibly fucked up notion of love. Like all who
loved her, he loved her passionately. She evoked passion in people. It
just happens that his love is sadistically demented and bleak.

Can't he disagree with Emily, yet respect her wishes anyway? Isn't that
how love works? To carry the torch for Emily, he defies her, degrades
her, "disagrees" until she's sick of him. Until the plan is his plan, it
is never really “settled”. He badgered her as she died. He is at the
mercy of his twisted inner psychology, ripped in circles by his strong
feelings for Emily, plus a general need to control everyone about
everything important. As a god. An angry god.

Darin over the years
====================

I was a teenager when we both ran our respective bulletin board systems
on computers in the mid-80’s.

The INFO Board, social nexus
----------------------------

Around 1986 I attended one or two INFO Board get-togethers at
Godfather’s pizza on 6^th^ Avenue. A young Darin threw a gathering for
INFO Board users. Some of his daughters might have been there. I don’t
even think Jenny was born yet, though maybe. Darin gave some novelty
gifts and we all ate pizza. My dad was there. I was probably 17. Darin
inspired me to start my own BBS.

The INFO Board was a Tacoma-based computer-to-computer message sharing
board, called a “BBS”. About 10-20 people visited it habitually from
home computers in and around Tacoma. This is how I met Darin, and also
Harry. Darin’s daughters know Harry as “Powdered Toast Man” because once
he wore that costume to a party Darin hosted.

I became Darin’s right-hand man for day-to-day operations and projects
on the INFO Board. In corporate terms, another man, Chip Taylor, was
essentially Vice President, and I was operations. This computer system
was a social nexus and its largest crowd was mine, including Harry, Dena
(who I met there and dated), Dani, Jack, Mark, and some other guys from
my high school. Darin had the unique perspective of being able to watch
people writing to one another on this computer, but largely he was
hand’s off and occupied with making money.

I think he did try to get a sexy young woman to be his assistant,
someone he met through the INFO Board, but Donna objected.

When I was in college, I’d upload some essays to the INFO Board and
Darin would read some.

The people on INFO Board and systems like it occasionally met up and
partied. Darin hosted quite a few parties for people of the INFO Board.
When I was 17 or so, Darin was one of a small number of System
Operators. I organized parties among my friends at Darin's house. I woke
up on his livingroom floor at 22 with a new girlfriend, who I met on the
INFO Board, when Jenny, 4, insisted I was her pillow, and asked if I
want French toast and strawberry syrup.

I typed sexytalk with Donna on the INFO Board in a private communication
around 1993.

INFO Board parties
------------------

![](img/bk-imgs/image9.jpeg){width="6.25in" height="6.520833333333333in"}

That’s Harry, in back. Harry is a witness in the current case! That’s at
Darin’s, an INFO Board Bash. That photo comes from Darin’s internet
server, at:

<http://darinmurphy.com/images/bashes/new-58.jpg>

![](img/bk-imgs/image10.jpeg){width="6.253472222222222in"
height="6.492361111111111in"}

<http://darinmurphy.com/images/bashes/new-59.jpg>

Jack Bridges, Dena Reaugh, Danetta Estes, and that other fellow.

![](img/bk-imgs/image11.jpeg){width="6.253472222222222in"
height="6.492361111111111in"}

Here I am, a filthy person with a Mickey Mouse shirt. It was a toga
party. That’s Dan DeBower, Missy, and some brunette, wearing togas in
Darin’s livingroom.

<http://darinmurphy.com/images/bashes/new-106.jpg>

![](img/bk-imgs/image12.jpeg){width="6.253472222222222in"
height="6.492361111111111in"}

That’s me, Dan Debower, and some other cats in Darin’s home, before the
kitchen remodel.

<http://darinmurphy.com/images/bashes/new-67.jpg>

![](img/bk-imgs/image13.jpeg){width="6.253472222222222in" height="6.4625in"}

That’s me, Harry, and Missy, dancing in Darin’s livingroom. This is also
a photo on darinmurphy.com.

Around 1990
-----------

Emily’s sister Melissa had a bit of a crush on me when she was a young
teen. She’d just sit next to me and smile at me. I was a welcome guest
in the home. It’d be kind of late, just Melissa and me, until she’d go
to bed and I’d drive away.

We also played a game I learned in junior high
----------------------------------------------

When I was a teenager, around 1987, I wrote software that Darin and
other friends would dial in to and play a space strategy game called
Galaxy. Darin won at least one epic game, taking place over 50 days. He
implemented Excel spreadsheets to calculate battle odds.

We played again in 2002 when I rebuilt the game using the web browser.

Guns in the sticks, real and video game
---------------------------------------

In rural Pierce County, near Mountain Highway, Darin co-owned a rural
spot where he shot guns with friends, including Mike Bitow, blowing oil
barrels above the treetops with explosives. Once we had a party there.
The sheriff shut down the guns by relaying a report from nearby
neighbors frightened by the sounds. At dark Darin set up his laptop on a
tree stump. The game was Castle Wolfenstein, the first "First Person
Shooter" video game. I was impressed. We all sat at a campfire. Often
Darin's kids were present, as were kids from the INFO Board and related
communities. The year was around 1993, perhaps earlier.

I worked for Darin around 1993
------------------------------

I graduate from college and move to Tacoma, just 4 blocks from Darin’s
home. He hires me as his driver and assistant.

-   Lots of driving and chatting.

-   We visit Dina’s home. She became his 2^nd^ wife later. Dina is
    married to a guy who would get into crack cocaine and leave her.

-   Lots of quick meals on the run, trips to Olympia, Bremerton, and all
    around Tacoma.

-   Darin was always wheeling and dealing. He’d have the latest cellular
    phone (quite rare in those days), he’d get some ammunition in bulk
    (or try to), he’d get cellphones with one plan and change it
    to another. In those days it was easy to set customers and one’s
    self up with illegally copied software. Darin would claim licensure
    of software by specifying the owner is: “You and I and all Mankind.”

-   Once Darin sold a glare guard as an anti-radiation shield. I
    installed it at the client’s office, an Olympia seller of hippy
    ointments and sundries.

Darin and I were an onsite consultant duo who spent considerable hours
together over many years.

Mostly I picked up little jobs and hung out with him. What does a
narcissist want more than a fan? And I was a fan.

When I worked for Darin, he got me a cellular phone when they were rare.
He loaned me a low-end laptop that I used to write.

In my employment for Darin I was paid something like \$10/hr to drive
him from his fire station shift (48 hours) to Bremerton Shipyard. I
would buy food he'd eat before sleeping as I drove. He got me two other
jobs with other people, but I lost both.

-   I accompanied him to a client's home to explain they had
    fatal dataloss.

-   I installed stuff for customers of his in Olympia.

-   I took his car to the mechanic to replace the brakes.

-   He showed me a remote control car racetrack and we watched a while.

-   He gave a secretary my number, which was awkward. He said, "Fat
    girls need love, too." His other advice: "Flirt with all the women,
    *especially* the fat ones."

-   One job he got me was through Egghead, but I didn’t really fit in.

-   Another job he got me was for a guy everyone called Stubbs cuz
    he’s short. He sold computers. But he went under a few weeks water.
    No job.

-   During the 1990's, routinely provided unlawfully duplicated software
    to me, including Magellan (a file search tool), and hard drive tools
    including SpinRite.

-   As employee, I drove his car to hardware retailers and then
    installed hardware such as anti-glare screen or printer at customer
    side unattended.

-   Would handle his personal and business calls from the car while he
    taught at Bremerton Naval Ship Yard.

-   He loaned me a cellular telephone and a laptop computer, for
    “business use”.

2002
----

I was in a pinch selling a house. I needed to top a tree that blocked
the knockout view. Darin drove to Seattle and topped two trees for me.
Wasn’t that kind?

In Bauhaus, a coffee cafe' in Seattle, explained to me that his 3rd
daughter had begun using methamphetimine through her associaties at the
sandwich shop where she worked.

I authored some technical information as an exercise. Darin regularly
visited my publication through the internet to view my activities.

2003
----

Darin had provided me with a password to his home computer. At one point
he let me watch his motion-sensing camera as he and Dina came and went.
I had the password to his VNC server. When I encountered digital
photographs of the capture of Saddam Hussein, I used VNC to log in to
his computer and place these photographs on his desktop computer.

Harry and I stopped at Darin's house in Spanaway to ask him to examine
the cargo security on my car as we left for Nevada. He was happy to give
us some help.

2005
----

Darin was proud of Emily’s success in the Marine Corps. He gave me her
email address. I wrote a short letter wishing her luck. Emily served for
8 years, and developed brain cancer. Darin was very active organizing
necessary medical travel for two operations, over many years. He always
had test results and xrays he was studying.

One day he visited me in Downtown Seattle. He showed me the entrance to
the employee-only dining area for Nordstrom. We bought lunches there and
chatted.

around the same time, he gave me an address and password to his computer
on the internet.

i used this information to log in and put pictures of the capture of
s.h. on his desktop.

2006?
-----

Darin married Dina in downtown Tacoma. Of course I was there. I took
some photos of his daughters there. Darin put my bicycle in the trunk of
his rented fancy car, or maybe it was his purple car, and he drove me
with his new wife to the place where I lived. Isn’t that sweet?

I think after helping me with the tree (around 2002) he visited with
Dina around 2006, my little treehouse home.

2009
----

![](img/bk-imgs/image14.png){width="4.614583333333333in"
height="3.3541666666666665in"}

2011-ish
--------

![](img/bk-imgs/image15.png){width="6.979166666666667in" height="3.6875in"}

![](img/bk-imgs/image16.png){width="4.656944444444444in"
height="3.477777777777778in"}

Watch out there’s a pied piper of little girls back there. Datin your
daughter! Hard!

![](img/bk-imgs/image17.png){width="6.761111111111111in"
height="5.955555555555556in"}

Gangsta. I paid a lot for tickets to a kinda lame party for Emily’s
birthday. Did Jenny take this pic? And Greg liked it. Sounds like family
to me.

2012-ish
--------

Darin picked me up from the Puyallup train station and drove me to
Jenny’s wedding. Juan Pablo was with us. I sat with Kris in the back and
coached him on being a ring bearer. I think Richard was mean to Kris on
that day.

In early 2013, Mr. Murphy expressed to Emily that it's problematic that
I'm "half-family". Does he deny saying this now? Emily's response was to
invite me to the BRIDGES counseling, where Mr. Murphy introduced me as
Emily's partner. And then I became the pillar that made sure E & C
attended BRIDGES. Anyway, what's "half-family" and why is it his
problem? And that sounds pretty close to family, doesn't it?
"Half-family?"

2013-ish
--------

![](img/bk-imgs/image18.jpeg){width="3.538799212598425in"
height="4.716418416447944in"}

Darin saw this photo along with hundreds of others that spanned Emily’s
life, as we waited for Emily to finish an MRI. Darin said this was a
cute photo. I gave Darin a full backup of photos of Emily and Chloe that
I had. My shirt says DEMPSEY UNIVERSITY. I do NOT see the resemblance
between Chloe and the child in the video.

I think in 2013 on Halloween I was at Darin’s house with Emily and
Chloe, and we trick-treated the area. Usually we went to Uncle Ned’s in
Seattle, but that time we were at Darin’s.

2014-ish
--------

At my first Bridges therapy, it was Darin, Donna, and me, in the
“care-givers” group. Darin introduced me as Emily’s partner.

During later 2014 grief therapy, asserted that i had betrayed him
somehow. his wife also made this claim. after therapy i asked his wife
why. she said because chloe should be with her or donna. i asked if
emily also betrayed her. she said no, that emily's decision about chloe
was uninformed, or based on stupidity or not caring for chloe. darin
listened, said nothing.

He requested to be my Gmail chat buddy. Imagine that.

We all went to San Francisco with Emily and Melissa:

![](img/bk-imgs/image19.png){width="6.311687445319335in"
height="3.621862423447069in"}

This guy is creepy and dangerous, deserving additional scrutiny
---------------------------------------------------------------

This photo was Emily’s telephone background. If only it was her reality.
Two people helping. Nope, couldn’t have that. And she called the
sensation, “tearing”. She said that’s how it felt when Darin divorced
Donna, and Darin had only redeemed himself by helping Emily with her
medical needs. He threw that trust away.

### From Dina’s divorce papers

![](img/bk-imgs/image20.png){width="7.28125in"
height="2.8645833333333335in"}

Mexico Travel 1: April & May, 2009
----------------------------------

-   Invitation: I hadn’t been in close contact with Darin in 2009, but I
    must have written about something, and he invited me to
    Melissa’s wedding. At that wedding I saw Emily, and saw Emily’s
    tattoo (which said CHLOE), but did not meet Chloe. (She
    was napping.) Darin invited me to come to Puerto Vallarta and stay
    with him.

-   Darin insists on two things in Mexico: He doesn’t wear a watch, and
    he doesn’t wear underwear.

-   Darin discussed the availability of hit men in Mexico, where he
    owned a time-share condo in the more-American part of town, north of
    Puerto Vallarta. (Nuevo Vallarta.) He called his condo and someone
    answered, which was unexpected. Darin believed his wife to be
    ruthless and greedy, and he believed his status as her spouse might
    incentivize her to have him killed so she would receive both assets
    and fire department pension. Some member or members of Mariela’s
    family reportedly asked if he needed to have someone “taken care of”
    and he declined this offer. Darin explained that Mexico is a place
    where people just “disappear”. He said Dina had stolen at
    least \$100,000.

-   **April 10:** Darin found a bicycle I could ride, but the
    tube exploded. Darin took me, Melissa, and Rob to the beach in
    Puerto Vallarta. People stopped at various shops.

-   **April 13:** Darin thanked Mario for allowing Darin to date
    Mariela, and stay in the house. Darin snuck Emily, Chloe, and me
    into a tourist resort water park, because Darin knows the guy at
    the counter. Later Darin jumped into my bed to cut off my wristband,
    so someone else could wear it to get into the water park. Darin and
    Jenny were in a very minor car accident.

-   **April 14:** Darin drives Emily, Chloe, Jenny, and me with Mexican
    family to a small, local resort: A grill, a pool, a zipline overhead
    (we didn’t go on it). I swam with Chloe in the pool. Everyone asked
    how old she was (in Spanish).

-   **April 20:** I start falling for Emily. She has terrible allergies.

-   Trip Details: During that trip, I stayed in Darin’s duplex home,
    along with Melissa and Rob (on their honeymoon). Then Emily and
    Chloe arrived, and Melissa and Rob went somewhere else. Then Jenny
    arrived, and Darin’s dad Terry came with Terry’s wife. I told Emily
    I had a cozier bed than the one she was in, but she only checked it
    out on the second night. Darin got us some marijuana and we had a
    wildly memorable time, walking to the taco shop for fresh
    squeezed juice.

-   **May 2^nd^**: Darin drove Emily, Chloe, me, and Mexican family to a
    family baptism, three hours. One boy had a birthday, too, and sang 3
    traditional Mexican songs karaoke style. Then a woman entertainer
    sang ten songs.

-   I spent evenings cobbling my experiences into narratives with
    photos, including photos taken on Darin’s camera and my own. These
    photo essays are still available.

![](img/bk-imgs/image21.jpeg){width="3.6245570866141734in"
height="4.344827209098862in"}\
\
I rode with Juan Pablo and Hugo in the back of a pickup to the ATV
corral.

![](img/bk-imgs/image22.png){width="6.520833333333333in" height="3.78125in"}

Fatima and Chloe. This is a partial canopy on a flat-bed pickup. Darin
drove us everywhere.

### Movie Star

Darin projected *Night of the Iguana* on the wall at Mariela’s house.
Her father Mario is a carpenter. He built the whole 3 story cement home,
with business, workshop, and cool penthouse. It turns out Mario is in
this movie from 1963, when Puerto Vallarta was a fishing and farming
town. He was an iguana pitch kid then, holding the iguana above his head
so people would stop and pay to see the iguana. We watched his brief
cameo many times. He said the movie made the city famous, and then in
1969 the international airport made it into a tourist destination.

### Drug Dealer Neighbor

Mariela got some joints from her neighbor friend. Later he would be
murdered in prison, and his family suspected Mario’s family, until
someone became a godfather, and Darin set up running water for the
family who lost their son.

### ATV Offroading\
![](img/bk-imgs/image23.jpeg){width="2.741379046369204in" height="4.3844520997375325in"}\
\

This was a few days before Emily arrived. The backstreets of the city
are dusty, and we had to cover up. While gunning through the dusty
roads, I saw chickens, horses, dogs, cinderblock shacks, and of course
Mexicans! Some of them pushed ice cream carts. My 4-wheeler did not have
functioning brakes. Fun! At the top of the hillside we all stopped for
snacks and looked out over the city.

-   Some in my family were offended when I was omitted from
    Emily’s obituary. But who took the picture of Emily in the obituary?
    I did.\
    \
    ![](img/bk-imgs/image24.jpeg){width="3.6835772090988628in"
    height="2.755604768153981in"}\
    \
    \
    Mario and Soledad are Mariela’s parents. They never were officially
    married, until April 18^th^, 2009. I believe this is the day Darin
    spanked Chloe, age 22 months. I took these pictures of their
    wedding, using Darin’s camera. The ceremony was May 2^nd^ while the
    official wedding was April 18^th^. I took these photos, aren’t they
    nice?

    ![](img/bk-imgs/image25.jpeg){width="3.896599956255468in"
    height="2.425890201224847in"}\
    \
    ![](img/bk-imgs/image26.jpeg){width="3.8535050306211724in"
    height="2.896551837270341in"}

Mexico Travel 2: Two or more weeks in June, 2010
------------------------------------------------

Invitation: As you might gather from his web site, Darin was trying to
start an “organic, in-town, real Mexico” tourist service. Mariela had a
friend who worked at the airport, in a Mexican apartment. Their idea was
that the woman and her son would stay elsewhere while we rented their
home. This didn’t really work: The apartment was very hot and very
small. So after calling 6 other leads, they found an exceptional condo
for us, with a pool. T.V., breezy, nice place. And this Frida Kalo
knock-off, starring Emily. This is where I taught Chloe to swim. Darin
stayed near Mariela’s family, with Candace and Candace’s (step?-)sister.
We called that place The Hacienda.

![](img/bk-imgs/image27.jpeg){width="2.8054997812773403in"
height="2.741379046369204in"}

Oh Frida!

![](img/bk-imgs/image28.png){width="3.4482753718285215in"
height="3.294430227471566in"}\
![](img/bk-imgs/image29.png){width="3.5172419072615924in"
height="3.571353893263342in"}

Chloe’s 3^rd^ birthday. I’m pretty sure I paid for at least half of that
bouncy castle, and at least half of that piñata!

I had an idea to rent a boat and go visit some rocks. We didn’t get to
sail but it was fun.\
\
\
![](img/bk-imgs/image30.png){width="4.2374343832021in"
height="2.620690069991251in"}

![](img/bk-imgs/image31.jpeg){width="5.729166666666667in"
height="4.291666666666667in"}\
Emily, with child sex attacker Brian Herrington’s bald head. Jenny, and
Candace Zygar’s half-sister.\
Darin made Hugo, his fireman friend, a really strong lemondrop, and Hugo
got sick. Later that week, Hugo drove Emily, Chloe, and me to Las Palmas
and we rappelled off an old bridge there. Below was a river with water
like a bath, and we had a swimming picnic.

![](img/bk-imgs/image32.jpeg){width="6.83125in"
height="5.116666666666666in"}

Solidad, Mariela’s mom, brought us a cooked chicken. Las Palmas is a
clean, pretty town with boys on horses and the largest hat we've seen so
far. We had popsickles there. Mine was lime.

Mexico Travel 3: December 2012
------------------------------

Emily was going to travel with Chloe, but had medical priorities, so she
invited me to go instead. I thought about staying in Tacoma with Emily,
but I was actually dating Mel. So I paid Darin \$500 for the \$740
ticket.

Darin’s family let Fatima and Julieta join Chloe and me at the pool.
There seemed to be no concern.

I REMEMBER the look Darin gave me when his mother Andrea must have told
him her allegation. It was much earlier in the trip than Andrea says in
her letters (which specify 3 different dates, all too late, and all
impossible). I was pretending to be a momma bird with Chloe, while Emily
was on Skype. Darin looked at me more intensely then ever before, and my
silly thought was that for once he might jump in here and care for Chloe
in an emotionally connected way. But no, it was probably Andrea.

### Hysteria strippers

The strip club’s name was Hysteria. It is a known tourist destination in
Puerto Vallarta, Mexico. The dancers performed one at a time on a
catwalk while staff pushed overpriced drinks to intoxicated Americans.
Then performers offer to dance in laps in exchange for bracelets
purchased on the customer’s tab. I would describe it as dimly lit. Darin
Murphy (Emily's father) made arrangements for some of us to go to
Hysteria. Darin took us to the club without warning. I had never been
there. Darin told me that all dancers in the club sold sex, even those
who say they do not. I don’t know if Darin had been there before. He did
say he had been to the “local” strip bars in Puerto Vallarta, which he
characterized as friendlier than the tourist-oriented Hysteria.

While at Hysteria with Darin Murphy and the other members in our group,
I sat in a chair at the end of some small drink tables. A stage was to
my left, along the left side of the little tables in front of me. Along
the right side of these tables sat Mark Deutsch, then Melissa Vulliet,
then Rob Vulliet, then Mariela Murphy (Darin's wife). Darin Murphy sat
in a chair you might say was at the other end of the tables,
face-to-face to me but at some distance (the distance of four adults
sitting side-by-side).

I saw Mariela and Darin engage in sexual contact with at least two
strippers/prostitutes ("entertainers") while drinking distilled alcohol.
Darin kissed and touched at least one stripper all over, who kissed and
touched him all over. Darin's third daughter Melissa and her husband Rob
also employed entertainers for sexual contact while drinking distilled
alcohol. I only drank a single rum and Coke, and did not purchase sexual
stimulation. However, in talking with an entertainer, *I* offered *her*
a lap dance, which she accepted. It was tasteful and included little
touching, and she laughed, I think sincerely. Darin brought us all in
the same vehicle to the club without warning. I would not have joined if
informed of the destination. During the evening I only practiced Spanish
with the entertainers I met, and provided modest compensation for their
time.

I estimate all participants to be in excess of 20 years of age. The two
I spoke with were single moms. Chloe stayed with Mariela Murphy’s family
while we were away. Darin Murphy said later that a stripper he hired
there asked for 25 (pesos or dollars) to get cocaine. He told us that he
declined. Mariela Murphy said to me later that extramarital sexual
relations were ok with her so long as she remains the primary partner.

### A Real Massage

A few days after the strippers, Darin drove us to buy real massages in
the tourist part of town, and we all did.

![](img/bk-imgs/image33.jpeg){width="2.513938101487314in"
height="6.205100612423447in"}

I took 95% of the photos at his wedding in Mexico, and also the one in
Tacoma months earlier, using his camera. I made the only videos of both
sets of vows.

![](img/bk-imgs/image34.png){width="3.4623840769903764in" height="2.0in"}

Other Holidays with Darin
-------------------------

-   I’ve spent Christmas and New Years with Darin in Mexico twice.

-   Christmas Eve at his fire station. At xmas eve fire station played
    gun combat simulation game and watched fatal attack on afghanistan
    combatants by droNes. He also explained his database work was
    unauthorized on the TFD network, and he was told to disconnect it.

-   Thanksgiving in Spanaway with Mariela and her kids. (For a year or
    so, Darin lived up the road from my mom.) It was the year of the
    big snow. Mariela asked for a recipe.

-   On another Thanksgiving I showed friends the firehouse where Darin
    was liutenant. He introduced us to his crew. An alarm rang and we
    all left quickly.

I skiied with Darin just prior to the first Gulf War, up at Snoqualmie.

Darin asked me for a place to visit in Seattle, and I suggested the
Ballard Locks. I showed Darin, Mariela, Juan, and Fatima the locks.
<https://picasaweb.google.com/107460598315429300090/Seattle2010>

Mariela
-------

The day Darin and Mariela came over, two days before the 2nd adoption
meeting, Mariela strangely got vertigo. I think there was more than
altitude involved. I think she was realizing Darin was involved in a
"reality vortex" unique to his broken psychology of control. He made no
indication of concern at that breakfast. They made stupid smalltalk and
he studied everything in the house as he prepared his explosive speech.

Here Mariela takes a video of me with Chloe, along with her two
children, as it starts to snow in Seattle:

<https://picasaweb.google.com/107460598315429300090/Seattle2010#5559875394571691602>

### ![](img/bk-imgs/image35.png){width="4.597222222222222in" height="3.1194444444444445in"}

We’re flyin!!! Lookie I’ve snatched Darin’s entire family in my
clutches. Hiyooo!

### Abuse of Mariela (Darin’s 3^rd^ wife)

Based on comments made to me by Emily Murphy, Mariela Murphy (wife of
Darin Murphy) was physically abused by her prior partner. Emily was
aware of this based on the adoption interview and records for Mariela's
son, Juan.

Control Devices
---------------

-   Darin sought Emily’s cellular phone one week before her death. He
    said this was “in case her friends call”. This did not make sense to
    me, as Emily had stopped answering her own phone regularly over a
    month prior. Her friends would call me, and I had referred them all
    to Mariela’s phone. So what friends was he referring to? How would
    she answer? As well, I knew her phone was an authentication key to
    her financial, social, and personal accounts, such as email,
    Facebook, and Tapco. She had entrusted me with her finances and
    email as her Financial Power of Attorney, and as the Executor of
    her Estate. It was not financially prudent to release this
    authentication key to any other party for any reason. I explained
    this position twice. His response was: “John! John! Her cell phone
    is her cell phone!” He then hung up as I responded politely that the
    device would not leave my custody. He continued demanding it in
    person, using notes. Had she sought to entrust her finances and
    personal communications to him, I imagine she would have placed him
    in these legal roles, or provided him with passwords. Based on his
    hostility and my understanding of Emily’s friendships, I doubt his
    stated motive—that friends might call. Call forwarding could solve
    that problem, for example.

Sky is falling
--------------

-   Darin claimed vocally and repeatedly both Emily and Chloe were
    experiencing abuse. He worked two blocks away from our apartment on
    Tacoma Avenue, yet he rarely visited.

-   Darin says severely critical things in meetings that he does not say
    in private, one-on-one, conversations. Many times he had a cheerful
    conversation with me one-on-one, and shortly afterward he would
    severely criticize and accuse me in a meeting of authorities. He
    never discussed his serious allegations with me. In fact he carried
    on with me privately as if we were friends.

2011
----

2012
----

Some time around 2012, Darin came to Seattle with Mariela, Mariela’s
sister visiting from Mexico, Juan, Fatima, Chloe, and me. And I think
Emily was there, but I am not sure. We went to the Sculpture Park. It’s
totally cool. There are pictures from that day. Then we ate at the
Spaghetti Factory together.

![](img/bk-imgs/image36.png){width="7.686805555555556in"
height="3.0743055555555556in"}

Darin, Chloe, Andrea in Mexico at his wedding. Photo by John Dempsey.

2013
----

I took Chloe and Emily to a water park in or near Tacoma on five or six
occasions in the summer of 2013. Emily was usually there, too, and
sometimes Ally, and maybe Kris once. I mentioned this place to Darin a
few times, inviting him and family. I went to Tacoma and saw Emily in
Donna’s house. Emily walked Chloe to school throughout 2013 and was
proud of the daily exercise. Throughout 2013, I was trying to undo the
crazy shit caused by Andrea’s accusation. It wasn’t that Emily believed
it, but it made everything harder for a while, as really we needed to
talk about very uncomfortable things.

![](img/bk-imgs/image37.png){width="7.014583333333333in"
height="4.8805555555555555in"}

Halloween. Darin Murphy gave this a Thumbs Up on Facebook.

### April, Emily responds

A sequence of events led to my acceptance of Emily’s invitation and
request. I had begun thinking of Chloe’s plan in mid-2012. I went to
Mexico to speak to Mariela about raising Chloe. Around April, 2013,
Emily’s her home, I asked if Darin might be better than Donna for Chloe.
Emily said, “Its not fair. I have a beautiful daughter and I can’t watch
her grow up.” I agreed it wasn’t fair. Emily said she wanted me to raise
Chloe. I wasn’t sure about my readiness, and I vastly overestimated the
emotional health of Darin. So I advocated for Darin’s until Emily
refused that idea completely, after the Uncle Howard meeting and the
Long Weekend.

### Early November, the Meeting at my Uncle Howard’s

I organized a meeting at my Uncle Howard’s house. Darin, Mariela, Emily,
and me. Emily was persuaded, but only briefly, that I was right when I
argued for Darin and Mariela raising Chloe.

Emily said she did not want Chloe raised Mormon.

I said I wanted Chloe to have more opportunity, with technology and
such.

“I felt manipulated.” –This was Darin’s response to the meeting at
Howard Dempsey’s, suggesting I should feel guilty. Guilt is the family
national anthem. In that meeting, Emily and I floated the idea that
Darin and Mariela raise Chloe. At that meeting, at the end, Darin asked,

“What’s in it for you, John?” This seemed like a strange question to me.
In a previous interaction he had already agreed that there are mental
health problems at Donna’s home. I wanted to help Chloe reach a safer,
healthier environment. What did he think my motive *might* be? Of course
in his declarations he argues that my intention was to secure access to
Chloe so I could sexually victimize her.

The evening after that meeting, in his home on the 2^nd^ floor, Darin
expressed concerns that benefits earned by Emily’s Marine service
intended for Chloe would instead finance Mairs home debt.

### After the meeting Em and I have a weekend

Following this meeting was a “long weekend” Emily and I spent together.
She returned to Tacoma, to her father’s, and told him she had changed
her mind again, that Donna was the better choice. Darin promptly wrote
email to Mike Howard, while Emily called me and said, “Are you sitting
down? I’ve changed my mind again.” Candace Zygar apparently said there’s
no room at Darin’s, but Emily said this decision was hers alone, based
on her gut. “I’ve ignored my gut before but I’ve always regretted it.” I
said I felt sad. She said, “If you don’t like it, change it. Come to
Tacoma and be the guardian!” I refused and she cried. It was the last
time I refused.

I called Darin. I thought he’d also be unhappy about Emily’s shift, and
he was… he was hard to read. At first he seemed to contradict what Emily
said. Then he said I had it right. Then he yelled, “I’m supporting my
daughter. I want her to have some comfort. What are YOU doing?” In
another phone conversation around the same time he yelled that I should
“Step up!” I found both statements motivational… and he also said in
email somewhere that he supports what Emily wants. I thought, “He’s got
the right idea. I’ll do that, too.”

On the day after Memorial? Day, 2013, I called Darin to express dismay
that Emily declined to prefer his home to Donna's for Chloe's future.

Darin initially asserted that Emily hadn't said that, but eventually
agreed she had.

He asked if I was in Seattle. He regularly brought up my residency in
Seattle.

He said he was supporting his daughter, and asked what I was doing.

He then shouted that I need to "step up".

I searched my soul. I considered marrying Emily and adopting Chloe. I
called all of my friends and asked their views. Two in particular,
Walter Wittel and Jan Dempsey, asked very hard questions about how
effectively I could raise Chloe if Emily’s illness and care bankrupted
our marital estate. But all my friends supported my decision to raise
Chloe.

### November

It was Thanksgiving, or perhaps the day before, or after. Emily,
Melissa, Mariela, Darin and I visited the San Francisco Zoo. It was
right across from the apartment where we stayed in two different rooms.
Emily came to San Francisco for gamma knife treatment, but the doctor
showed her new tumors, and explained gamma knife could not be effective.
That night—a rather terrible night—Emily and I told Darin I would adopt
Chloe, while Mariela and Melissa listened. Darin says this conversation
never occurred.

### December

Darin called Emily incompetent before leaving for Mexico, and this
shredded Emily’s trust in Darin. Then both Darin and Donna began
severely abusing Emily psychologically in response to her stated wish
and plan for Chloe. I reported the abuse to my sister and uncle. Emily
was very enthusiastic about moving in with me and being in a place where
she is supported.

Emily appreciated the opportunity to vent without her parents present at
Bridges therapy. In December, Bridges gave us a referral to Gilda’s club
and advised Emily to find an attorney who represents her.

2014
----

-   “You’re paying a pretty penny!” - Suggesting I should defer to his
    authority on real estate rental rates. In fact, the rent was not
    high, was stable (all utilities except electricity included), the
    view was lovely, and the location was about as convenient and fun as
    Tacoma gets. Emily paid less per month than she paid to Donna.
    Square footage is not the only way to think about real estate. Emily
    said about this comment, “Where was he when we were looking for a
    place?” He was in Mexico. After we had signed a lease, he appeared
    to want us to move, for reasons I do not think related to his
    stated reasoning. Emily was proud of our apartment and we chose
    it well.

Darin sneaks in every time
--------------------------

We lived on the 15th floor of a secure apartment building. "Tailgating"
into the building was discouraged. I even had to rescue Jenny from
outside when the building manager told her she couldn't sneak in. For a
few months, the only way in was to call me or Emily on our personal
cellular phones.

The call box at the door could only call local telephone numbers, and
ours weren’t local.

This did annoy people, but I wanted, too, to personally accompany people
up the elevator, at least at first. I wanted to know who was coming in,
and perhaps why. This taught me a lot, as people from far-afield just
appeared, some good, some bad people. I wanted to walk them in. Is that
really so crazy? Anyhoo…

Eventually I got a local telephone number, and call box calls rang it. I
could finally buzz someone in. I had this other phone with me always, or
carefully controlled. I could buzz someone in from across town.

Competency, not Incompetency, was the problem
---------------------------------------------

Allegations that she was incompetent are not based on any information
gathered from any professional who ever met her in 2014. She just
couldn’t speak well. In fact, the hospice nurse, the highest ranking
medical visitor to her bedside, explained the complexity of ignoring her
POLST: So long as she communicated clearly--using blinks or hand-holds
or anything—she was competent to make decisions about her end-of-life
choices (or her will, or the custody of her child). In my experience,
she was competent until the last day I saw her, a week before her death.
Therefore, her father never had legal authority to modify her POLST, and
the POLST he presented at her bedside was not signed by any doctor
anyway. I had many conversations with her about her wish to have all
means of life support and extension. Emily rarely changed her mind.

Darin yells
-----------

-   At the 2^nd^ adoption meeting, Darin yelled quite a bit. He objected
    to my sister’s “tone”. He was incredibly domineering.

-   At that same meeting at Madigan, Donna appeared to thank me for
    taking care of Emily, but exclaimed it’s just too dangerous living
    up there in that modern apartment. Darin told me, “Don’t bullshit me
    about what happened in that apartment last night, John!” What
    happened was: Emily was dying, peeing, vomiting, before the
    resources were there to give her hospice care. Bettina came in just
    at that time and cleaned her up with my father’s help. We decided
    she was dehydrated so we called 9-1-1. She was taken to
    the hospital. She entered hospice a few days later.

-   Darin also yelled on the phone about me delivering Emily’s phone to
    Darin, cuz I couldn’t. His yelling isn’t authentic, though it
    sounds so. It’s tactical. Whatever will work to get his way. What
    I’d give for honesty even if that entailed yelling. ;)

Yelling at Darin
----------------

The two times in my life I raised my voice to Darin Murphy both occurred
in 2014:

1)  When I learned he was seeking to intervene in the civil case, he
    called to say he was coming by to serve papers. I told him, "Do you
    think I'm going to care for Emily full-time while you resist us in
    court? The free ride is over!" He asserted that actually it was my
    free ride that was over. I left the residence to my mom and dad so
    Darin had to serve the papers onto Emily's unconscious body.

2)  As I left Emily's body in Darin's home, Darin said he wanted to talk
    to me. I said emphatically that I didn't want to talk to him, and
    walked away.

Stuff Darin Said
----------------

-   Once during a visit to Darin’s home, probably Emily’s last visit on
    her own two feet, I read a book to Chloe while Darin worked on some
    computer task. Mariela asked him if he was sure he wanted to work
    rather than just talk to us. He worked instead, sort of talking
    while he worked, and drove away to deliver a package at the FedEx or
    UPS office. Emily commented later that Darin didn’t notice me
    reading to Chloe, and this seemed to make Emily angry or disgusted.
    I think she tried hard to make her parents understand and accept her
    choice regarding me and Chloe. She would note with disappointment
    every time I was obviously doing healthy things with Chloe which
    they (especially Darin) didn’t seem to see.

<!-- -->

-   On two occasions to me Darin described Andrea (Emily’s grandmother)
    as being “manic”. Once she was making urgent requests for food or
    cooking purchases that Darin would not satisfy, because she was
    being “manic” in his view.

-   “This elevator is inadequate for Emily’s needs.” - Suggesting I
    should defer to his authority on adequacy of elevators. He said we
    should move.

-   Darin and his wife would arrive without calling ahead, and sneak
    into the building, bypassing the call box. He often seemed to have
    an ulterior motive for visiting. He eventually began
    making accusations. For example, he read the prescription for rectal
    lorazepam and claimed based on it that I was misusing
    oral lorazepam. Caregiver Mariah relayed to me that Darin asked her
    strange questions about medications, appearing to seek confirmation
    that Emily had been mis-medicated or over-medicated. Mariah
    explained that I was the sole medication provider, but he did not
    ask me. Hospice noted that they had high confidence in my
    administration of all medication. Hospice eventually agreed to call
    Darin regularly to appease him.

### Feb 18, noon

Darin gets Emily into his car, drives her to Puyallup, tells her she’s
being abused. She texts me from inside the car. Says she’s being asked a
lot of questions by Darin. Says Darin expresses “concerns”. Emily
concludes wishing for TWO way communication. When she returns home, she
goes into the kitchen and starts crying, saying, “I like how we talk
about our feelings here.”

### Feb 26, noon

Darin calls at 10:30am, leaves me a voicemail asking if Emily wants to
have lunch. I call Emily, who suggests Darin come over and she make him
eggs. He came with Mariela. Mariela got vertigo, supposedly from the
altitude. No concerns of any kind were mentioned. No questions were
asked. It seemed cheerful. And then… a few days later…

### Mar 6, 2pm 2^nd^ adoption meeting, Joyce Robson’s

Mr. Murphy blows his top. Attorney Joyce Robson, Joni Irvin, Darin
Murphy, Donna Mairs, Jan Dempsey, John and Emily. Joyce thought Darin
was the most domineering person she had ever met, and that he was
demeaning to his dying daughter, Emily. Jan felt Darin channeled dark
forces. I was just stunned, accused of a litany of crimes: isolating
Emily? I’m not sure if brainwashing was said there, but he told Emily
she was being brainwashed in December, and that was a huge error on his
part.

### The thing between you and me

Darin began showing up with an entourage of family, usually on the
weekends. First time this happened, in the hall, he said, “I’m coming
over for Emily. This thing between you and me, that’s one thing. I’m
here for Emily.” What is this thing between him and me?

The visits were cold, not respectful of Emily’s need for quiet,
characterized by terrible food and a 2-Liter Coke, which would make
Emily puke. Of course she requested particular foods and he tried to
bring some. The care-giver Mariah said his visits were creepy and
unhelpful. Mariah really did not like Darin. Let’s get her as a witness.
She remembers all kinds of creepy stuff he did.

### Bossy McBosserson

For hospice intake at the apartment Darin showed up in heavy fireman
apparel. It’s my understanding he works as a 911 dispatcher. He insisted
the apartment was inadequate for hospice care, though the hospice staff
assured him it was well-suited. He demeaned me in front of the nurse and
social worker for failing to inform him of Emily’s seizure of March
17^th^. Emily still had the ability to call him had she wanted to. He
asserted that his legal role as medical power of attorney obligated me
to inform him about Emily’s medical care. The social worker explained
later that hospice works closely with the care giver unless Emily
becomes unable to communicate. Darin said the transfer we were doing
from the bed to an in-room commode (or wheelchair) using a secure
vertical bedside bar and a gait belt was unsafe. I studied professional
training materials to learn this skill, and was assured by hospice staff
and certified nursing assistants that my technique was correct and
equipment was appropriate.

### Apr 29, 5pm

In the presence of two of his wives, Darin presents “concerns” to Herb
and Pat at my apartment, as Jenny listens. Unfortunately, Herb and Pat
only heard Darin fabricating anger and chaos so the attention could
return to him. He didn’t have any actual articulated concerns. Pat asked
if this was about money. He had no reply.

### Efforts at resolution

In May my father strongly suggested to Darin Murphy that a parenting
plan should be established, saying templates are available. A parenting
plan would include clear language about the inappropriateness of these
remarks and behaviors. To date, no discussion of a voluntary parenting
plan has occurred.

### June 2

Report of an incident with Darin Murphy on 02 June 2014 By Herb Dempsey

Emily had died some hours earlier and my wife, Pat, and I drove my son
John Dempsey to visit Emily's remains at the home of Darin Murphy in
Ruston. Emily's remains were in bed in a small room off the living room
and after viewing the remains Pat suggested we give the two of them some
time alone.

Darin said, "Sure we can talk out on the porch." We all went out to the
porch where we stood silently for about 20 min. watching the neighbor’s
construction project and doing very little talking. After about 20 min.
of standing there, I looked at Pat and said, ”Perhaps somebody should go
in and check on John."

Darin immediately folded his arms across his chest, bowed his neck and
said, "I wish you wouldn't!" The move was sudden. The anger was real and
we both looked at him like he had totally slipped over the edge. He
seemed to realize that he had somehow been inappropriate and he
immediately began shaking his head and saying, "That's not what I meant.
We continued to look at him as if he were plainly nuts and I said, “It's
your house you can do whatever you want to."

The environment was charged with tension as we waited and after a couple
of minutes he finally said, "Yes, why don't you go and check on John?"
Pat went back into the house and a couple of minutes later appeared with
John we walked to the car and left.

I would suggest anyone dealing with Darin Murphy treat him with the
utmost respect as he is volatile and appears perpetually angry.

Herb Dempsey

### June 20

I don’t know who wrote this. Maybe Darin did:

John is welcome to attend the interment, we would prefer that his father
(Herb) and step-mother (Pat) not attend. His other family members
(mother, brothers, sisters, etc. are welcome to attend the interment
also. We would like John to minimize physical contact with Chloe if he
attends.

We would prefer that John and his family not attend the memorial service
and other family activities that will follow the interment on Tuesday.

And Alece added:

Additionally, the family is aware that you want to go to the internment,
and that is fine with them. They do not, however, want Herb or Pat to
attend because there has been some type of "run-in" this week with Herb
and Pat. I have no idea what they are talking about and Pam said she
didn't either.

Of course Chloe wept with me, in my arms, like normal people do.

And Candace Zygar? In her declaration to the court, she makes statements
easily contradicted by over 150 pages of visit reports.

Wegleitner Disneyland Trip Report – May 3^rd^, 2014
===================================================

Hey John, Attached is the Trip report for you. Let me know if you have
any questions. If you could please reply to me with some emergency
contact information for us while we are down there, that would be great.
Just your address and a couple phone numbers will work. That’s all!!! We
are super excited to bring Chloe with us. I know she will have a great
time. Talk to ya soon, Daryl W.

Trip to Disney
--------------

We will be starting the trip to Disneyland at Anaheim, CA on 5-21-2014.
Daryl Wegleitner will be the first driver during this trip. He will
achieve adequate sleep time during the daytime hours on the 21^st^. The
initial drive will commence at approximately 2300 (11pm) on 5-21-2014.
This leg of the drive is approximately 8 hours long. Daryl will drive
through the night on the start of the trip. Everyone else in the car
will be asleep during this initial leg of the drive (8 hours). Bettina
Wegleitner will drive the next leg (6 hours) during the day on the
22^nd^. Jeanette Tackett will drive after Bettina for the remainder of
the trip and arrive at The Best Western Plus Raffles Inn & Suites, 2040
S Harbor Blvd, Anaheim, CA 92802 ((714) 750-6100) at approximately
1800(6pm) on the 22^nd^. Approximately 2 hours added to travel time for
rest stops and food stops.

Entire Drive is listed at 17 hours, 14 minutes by Google Maps..

Stay at Disney
--------------

We will be staying at the Best Western Plus Raffles Inn & Suites on S
Harbor BLVD in Anaheim, CA 92802 (more contact info above). The first
night we intend to hang out at the hotel and recover from the drive and
let the kids swim at the hotel swimming pool. We will be at the
Disneyland Park from opening to closing (usually 6am to 10pm or 12am)
every day from the morning of the 23^rd^ to the evening of the 25^th^.
Here is a link to the park schedule
<https://disneyland.disney.go.com/calendar/#/default/2014/05>. Checkout
from the hotel is on the 26^th^ at noon however, we will probably call
for a late checkout to let the kids play at the pool for a little bit to
get them worn down for the long ride home.

Trip home
---------

The trip home will begin at approximately 1800 (6pm) on the 26^th^.
Jeanette will drive first for 6 hours (while Daryl sleeps), Daryl will
take over at this point for 8 hours of night driving (Bettina and
Jeannette sleep). Bettina will drive the remainder of the trip home
after Daryl. We will arrive home at approximately 1300-1400 (1pm to 2
pm) on the 27^th^. We will drop Chloe M. off at the Murphy-Dempsey
apartment first.

The children will each have wrist bands with name and emergency contact
information (for the Wegleitner cell phone numbers) at all times while
not spent in the hotel.

This concludes the Wegleitner Disneyland Trip. Any questions, my contact
is 253-720-3320

Daryl Wegleitner

In Seattle
==========

In Seattle, Chloe and I maintained friendships, including one with
Daniel Masler, M.A., L.M.H.C.A., a child psychotherapist.. I organized
many hours of play therapy with Mr. Masler. During therapy I learned
Chloe felt anxiety about her future security. About that time, Chloe
asked me to write a story called "Chloe and John's Future Together".

Jack
====

My step-father since I was 7, Jack Ockfen, said each time I saw him last
year that he was praying for me and Chloe. He never saw her since Emily
died because Donna has routinely prohibited all adult members of my
family from seeing Chloe. The court has failed Chloe's need to see Jack
Ockfen, who she called grandpa, who appeared as her grandfather in the
News Tribune obituary under his photograph. Who else among her
relationships in my family will never see her again?

Darin’s sabotage and abuse made Emily furious
=============================================

In San Francisco, in November, I said I would perform Chloe's adoption
"transparently". Then Darin disappeared to Mexico for December. By
January the adoption was in-process. During the 2nd adoption meeting,
Darin accused me of sinister intentions, and said sarcastically,
"Transparently?!" I think that was something that set him off. The Will
Codicile was signed on the same day as the 2nd adoption meeting. The
fact Emily revised her will also seemed to be some kind of betrayal to
Darin, by me.

Let me confirm one thing: Emily was very, very angry at Darin's
behavior. She was angry when he crashed her adoption, she was angry when
they asked questions about her will, she was abused by them for her
decision, and she called it abuse, and harassment. She would yell, "I'm
the one with cancer!" She said she objected to the "harassment" from
Darin 's home, including his mother, who called Emily's voicemail, said
Emily and grandma had to "get Chloe in a room and tell her it's ok to
talk about the ongoing sexual abuse." We both knew evil was brewing at
Darin's house, but let me explicitly state: It made Emily mad. When
Adult Protection Services came, Emily was immobile, but she thought
Darin called them. She pulled me close, and swore, which she never did,
in a voice that is a growl: "Fuck Darin Murphy."

And so I would do everything Emily's way, because I saw this pattern
where she was absolutely furious that her parents were sabotaging her.
In fact, when we examined the life insurance, Emily and I both learned
it was \$400,000 instead of \$250,000, and instead of splitting between
Donna and Chloe, it was all to Chloe. Everyone had thought it was the
smaller amount, split. Darin thought it, Emily thought it, and I have
reasons to think Donna thought it, too. But she looked at it, and just
said, "Consequences ." I believe she meant to say, "Mom interfered with
my plan for Chloe. Consequences."

In early February, as things kept getting crazier, I told Emily I am
loyal to her. I hadn't thought of Darin as an adversary until that
winter. He insisted in therapy that I owed him loyalty. But I didn't see
him doing what she wanted. You see, early on, he said he was supporting
Emily, and asked me what I'm doing. He inspired me to figure that out. I
did it very rapidly, because I raced death.

Jan believes in Emily’s freedom
===============================

Another aspect of this story is my sister, Jan. Everything Jan suggested
that I did was like gasoline on this fire. Jan suggested we get a better
attorney for Emily's will. Jan kept me focused on Emily, and her
wellness, and her happiness. Jan said get a great apartment, it will be
your fortress, and she was right. Jan said "Call the police" and that's
when Richard blew his top. Everything Jan has suggested--all essentially
support for Emily and Emily's clear wishes--has been like gasoline on
the fire.

Badgering
=========

They would occasionally corner me and demand I explain some or every
aspect of Emily's medical treatment. They were often super-hostile about
it. I would turn to Emily, who still walked and talked, and be quiet.
She could speak for herself, if they would address her.

Once bedridden, Emily told me to be with her when almost everyone was
around. Be beside her. To Emily, our home was a source of pride. Her
parents' rejection of its sanctity or legitimacy made her very angry.
She clearly communicated a wish to live there as long as possible, and
clearly fought to keep Chloe with us. When the police interviewed us, I
made certain I didn't say much, because Emily was angry. She was also
too dizzy to dial 9-1-1 that day.

Trust
=====

Emily was adamant that dying entails a loss of autonomy and control, and
she wanted to be in control of her life as long as possible. This
included her plan for Chloe, but a time came where I would try to tell
her what was going on, and she didn't understand anymore. She said just
that she trusts me. We both trusted each other intensely.

Emily knew a lot
================

Emily said Darin is "really screwed up" and that she feels sorry for
Juan and Fatima. She said Darin carried on sexual relations with the
woman who became his second wife, while still with his first wife. Darin
was beaten so severely as a child that he was removed from his mother's
care.

Emily was the most successful person in her family. She saw what extreme
religion in the hands of psychological abusers did to her sisters. She
hated it. She wanted Chloe to have more. With my family, she has more.
With both families, she has what Emily wanted her to have.

Crap I wrote to Joni once
=========================

The petitioner has not responded to chemotherapy and is now dying
without it. She told me one time why she is staying alive: to see my
adoption of Chloe. I now plead with you to consider our application in a
thorough but expedited way. Chloe, too, would benefit from the security
of additional, active, healthy family who already have welcomed her as
ours. Instead she understands me to be dad and "guardian angel" so she
understands the legal nuance and is denied more security at a time when
she deserves more. Please consider the petitioner's request to see the
adoption in person.

I take care of Emily and Chloe full-time. Emily is very weak. She would
benefit from a specific dated event to look forward to in the adoption
of her child. I welcome a detailed evaluation, but delay makes me
profoundly sad, because I know I am insanely committed to Chloe, and may
be approved to adopt her some day, but I want Emily to be there. All
apologies if I stayed in Seattle too long. I earned money I spend now as
I care for Emily and Chloe. They were never far from my thoughts for
years and years. I am giving Chloe every security I can find, actively
choosing a most appropriate new school, and 3 therapy programs. I spend
my days with Emily, who can hardly stand, and now has great fears. I
want her to have something to live for, and she already told me what
that is: Chloe's security. A dated event would benefit both Chloe and
Emily. The county should consider the unique details of this petition.

In January Emily told me why she is staying alive: To see Chloe safely
in my custody. I am seeking a dated event, most ideally a court
appointment, which Emily would be inclined to live for.

I’ve struggled to summarize the problems here
=============================================

Donna and Darin use guilt and shame on children. These are powerful but
very destructive tools. I believe Donna learned these behaviors through
her church, and as a victim of spousal abuse. During a Dempsey family
vacation in Long Beach, WA, Emily described Donna to Herb Dempsey as "a
punching bag." In my own training as a volunteer with Flying Colors
theraputic childcare, a program for socially delayed children operated
by Martin Bullard Ph.D. I was trained specifically to avoid shame as a
control tool. Shame is brutally effective but extremely harmful to
self-esteem of a child, and causes loss of independent initiative.
Excepting Sergeant Emily Murphy, none of Donna's 3 other children have
attained any post-secondary degree in any subject. One does not work and
the two others work for low wages in retail environments. I have a
Bachelor of Arts degree and successful career in computer software.
Emily is acutely aware of the value of supportive and healthy emotional
behavior on outcomes and she and I spoke many, many times about the
pre-conditions for Chloe to seek and earn a post-secondary education.

Great ways I’m peculiar
=======================

Written from Tacoma: I prefer to aquire much smaller living arrangements
in urban areas with much more opportunities for activities outside the
home. I change residences when my needs change. Our current home is one
block from Wright Park, Tacoma's premier urban park where Chloe and I
play every day. Emily and I chose this location for its many activities,
entertainment, and dining options in walking distance. It also features
two hospitals, and a territorial view of Tacoma's waterfront. It's true
we could rent or buy more square footage further away from these
amenities, but Emily has not driven since her seizure, and foot and
wheelchair access has been very valuable to us.

The moment I really started spitting science
============================================

I earned money in Seattle over the years Chloe was young and Emily was
independent. We spent weekends and family trips together. Now Emily and
Chloe need me more than ever, so I came, and live off money I earned
over the years of their love and support. I'm not rich. This choice has
cost a quarter of my net worth. But it's money I earned in Seattle with
their ongoing affection and support. It's money I happily spend now on
them.

All the acrimony was a ploy to sabotage the adoption. Emily's father can
produce fearful statements faster than people can evaluate them. That's
his game: Create the sounds of a crisis when he disagrees, so he can
change the outcome. He has succeeded at it with you so far. That's
creating a travesty for Chloe.

These months with them both have been hugely challenging, as Emily
became paralyzed. I have managed her affairs. Her father only says she's
rummy in the head because he disagrees with her choices. 4 attorneys and
a psychologist have worked closely with her to evaluate her ability to
make adult decisions. None have expressed any concerns. Please consider
our conclusion that Emily is sound-minded and in possession of good
judgment. She does not want her father to sabotage her exceptionally
good choices.

So he'll get worse. His pain is losing control, but his tools are
showing "feelings" about how it's my fault. He thrashes and gnashes.
Everything he says is bait. The goal of the bait is to draw me (or his
family members) into a bottomless pit of twisted up motives and endless
guilt and shame. He desperately wants to insert his kooky explanations
into the discussion. (Gaddafi said the kids were on Al Quida and
Ecstasy.) When this fails, he becomes desperate.

When I first told him I would adopt C, he was supportive! He was a bit
abusive regarding not marrying E, but supported the adoption. I think
moving E out of his control (in his ex-wife's house) I started freaking
him out, so he constructed very intentional crazy explanations of why E
is in danger. C is just a chip in all this. But he tried to sabotage the
adoption of C to counter-attack regarding E. None of it worked at all.
Just as with the dictators! They rachet up the violence because it's all
they know how to do, and they blame the victims. They don't feel pain
for killing all they kill, including innocent kids.

I have attached my Will, written in 2004, and two letters we've written
to help Chloe. No one else has appeared to protect her. Emily's friends
and sisters come, and my family comes. My family is already completely
committed to raising Chloe with me. I understand there are necessary due
dilligences and a "process" and that I've been accused of horrible
crimes in that process. Please examine me! Visit my home and evalute my
family life while it's still here. Because Emily is disabled, I am
raising Chloe. There are profound psychological reasons adoption would
make Chloe more secure, and she speaks with longing for the day she is
my child.

Today E fell and I had to take the house apart with an hour of heavy
work to get her into a bed. In a way I don't mind because I like staying
active. But it makes my hands hurt. I have housework tendenitus or
something. Washing dishes helps. Since I had to go crazy with every
mattress in the house, and take the foots off the ottoman, my office is
empty so i've cleaned the floor and will steam clean tomorrow. Even on
days where I do hard battle against death and suffering, I still get in
laundry and steam cleaning. C is sleeping on the shorter ottoman next to
E in a twin mattress. I am maintaining performance in this setting,
humor, dining, and a growing number of relationships with medical
professionals. C learned to climb mom's stability bar to the ceiling.

Everything Emily Said Shame
===========================

Donna often seems derailed by guilt and blame feelings toward herself
and others. After spending time with Donna, Chloe repeats complex,
troubling explanations of guilt and shame she claims to feel, and
asserts that I should also feel. She often cries while explaining why
she and others are victims and prepretators of shame patterns.
Eventually after returning from Donna's care, Chloe escapes these
twisted explanations after crying briefly.

Unsent crap to Darin?
=====================

The most notable thing Emily said to me tonight is that she thought you
and Donna would be happy for her. I've thought about it, and can only
decide that Emily is the one who betrayed you. We want you to be certain
that we have a healthy, beautiful home. So why would you go jockin chaos
on that thought? Well, because you're very afraid of what could be up.
But Emily is healthier now than a month ago. Everyone we spend time with
says so. Emily is very alert, acutely conscious, and steadfast in what
she wishes. She has highly sound legal representation and a clear plan.
She drives everything about Chloe. I just love them both. But Emily is
the one who "betrayed" your home and Donna's.

Emily's dad continues to operate in troubling ways, and say troubling
things. My exercise continues to be avoiding his crazy statements, not
getting drawn into them. I wish things were quite different but I
realized he's bothering Emily, not just me, and so I hope his things
improve with Emily... it's not something I can address. That's a piece
of the whole patriarcial pie, ignoring the woman, and I won't do it.
Like today he said he worries that Emily's needs aren't being met. Isn't
she supposed to evalute that? And could he ask her? And the reality is,
Bill, I've organized a lot for Emily's needs. Her health, her wishes,
her finances, her will. I've committed my life to raising her child. To
deal with some guy saying he thinks Emily's needs aren't being met,
saying it to her face, like she's a simpleton or child, is a lot of
crazy to grapple with.

You know what? Screw Sara
=========================

Emily hates the idea of Sara raising Chloe more than I do. We both hate
it a lot. It's condemning Chloe to poverty. Yes, Sara's husband is a
student in a PhD program. Eventually he might be a history professor.
Emily can't stand how distant is he from his 3 kids, and still wants 1
more. Chloe looks up to Sara's daughter Allie who was sexually assaulted
and has sexually engaged with Chloe. There are severe reasons we both
are distressed by this idea of Chloe moving to Pullman with her sister's
family. Only Chloe likes this idea, because she does not understand how
terrible a role model Allie is.

Donna’s mom was remarkable
==========================

Alice Manning was Donna's mother. Prior to Alice's passing I visited her
with Chloe and Emily at Alice's apartment, attended Emily's college
graduation with Alice and Chloe, and played piano at Alice's birthday
party in Seattle. I sought to visit Alice in hospice but Emily said
Alice was gravely ill and should not be disturbed. I missed the memorial
for Alice Manning due to another committment, but with Ch

Unsent letters to Darin
=======================

Before I knew Darin was insane, I’d try to reason with him
----------------------------------------------------------

to Darin (unsent): Emily has said some shocking things since your last
discussion with her. She has described the broader relationship with you
as harmed by the divorce but restored by your support through her
illness. She has said many times that in your last discussion (before
leaving for Mexico) you said not just that you disagree with her choice
for Chloe, but that her choice shows she lacks competency, the basic
skill to choose. She connects this to the divorce, saying the feeling of
being ripped apart is the same.

Emily is drafting her new estate plan. I am Chloe's guardian and
trustee, and a new section called Power of Attorney for Child is needed.
But you did more than express disagreement when you spoke with her. You
said her position implies she's not competent to make these decisions.
This resulted in a considerable loss of trust. If she does not trust
you, how can she designate you in any role?

I think you've been misreading my role for a long time. Again, I wasn't
present at your last conversation with Emily, but you might have
attributed brainwashing to me. Brainwashing involves breaking people
down. I came to Tacoma based on lengthy negotiations with Emily about
Chloe's future. But it was a single day of attacks by Donna and you that
made me realize I had to find a new home for Emily. I could see her very
low mood, and I could see that time with me improved it. I attribute
those attacks to grief and fear, and I understand the depth of these
feelings. But they are a terrible source of leadership.

Emily is emotionally further along than anyone else. I admire her drive.
She says she has no choice but of course she could just weep. Instead
she soldiers on. She said yesterday, "I think I'm staying strong so I
can finish this plan for Chloe."

One thing we came to realize together: I am an option. I'm not perfect,
the situation is not perfect. When Donna says I'm too old (huh?), does
she have a better idea? When you list your criticisms, do you have a
better idea? Maybe you do, but you've never expressed it. Maybe you just
want a piece of Emily close by. But Chloe and I have a substantial and
growing relationship, and I am accompanied by substantial family
support. Emily considers me Chloe's best opportunity for security and
growth in the future. It doesn't turn all our relationships into solid
gold. It doesn't answer all questions about the future. But it is at
this point a very solid conclusion. If you maintain criticisms, you must
present her with a better option. I had thought your home was a great
choice. She did not see the difference between you and Donna. Neither
were her first pick anyway. I am. She has told me many times that I'm
the only option.

If we were a comic book duo, you'd be TuffGuy, and I'd be NancyBoy. We
have very different approaches to challenges. You see black-and-white,
and I see shades of gray. You commit to big steps and I take tiny ones.
You claim you can compartmentalize your feelings, and I just ride the
waves.

None of those musings matter. It matters whether Emily trusts you to
carry out roles According To Her Wishes. By saying she lacks competence
to decide Chloe's future, you have made her think your support is
conditional, and subject to your veto. You have a short period of time
to regain her trust.

I predict lashing out and badgering because the situation is not under
your control. I hope you give up on that motive and those tactics.
People tell me that's where I'm dreaming.

Emily's will is strong. Without her ongoing support I would not be in
Tacoma. Most of the fears I had before the move are gone now. I think
they were rational and fair, but also based on unknowns. I have many
unknowns, but now also many knowns. We are united. We are open about how
we feel, and why we are here. If you'd like to shake me off, you will
fail. If you'd like to boss anyone around, you will fail. If you'd like
to regain Emily's trust, I wish you all the success in the world,
because you are not needed, but your help and support are very much
wanted now and in the tough times to come. Please hear that: You are not
needed. The bully tactics, the badgering, the emotional karate crap ...
as protective as you wish to be, if you don't accept and support Emily's
most substantial wish--that of choosing the life for her daughter--then
she rejects the rest. Spend time speaking with her, and come to
understand her, and decide whether you can support her wishes. Only then
can you regain her trust.

Another letter Darin never got, written rather early on
-------------------------------------------------------

Thanks for expressing your concern about the elevator at Park Tower. I
relayed your concern to Emily. She would like you to speak with her
directly about any concern you have about her well-being.

I would like to bar the windows shut with tension beams as soon as
possible. Please suggest places in town I might find these.

There are quite a few more things on my mind, and I'd love to work more
closely with you, but there seems to be a disconnect between you and
Emily that isn't something I can fix. She wants you and Donna to be
happy for her, because she is doing what she wants. She is very happy in
our new home. I can't fix the disconnect because it's not mine. I have
come to believe you feel bottomless sorrow, and know you experience
paranoia. I know this makes you erratic and a challenge to trust. But
what I think doesn't matter. What Emily thinks should matter a great
deal to you. And she's annoyed and dismayed. Considerable trust you
earned since her diagnosis was shattered when you expressed your
objection to me as Chloe's father, just before you left for Mexico. It
was not that you disagreed, but she said you also described her as
incompetent and under the spell of brainwashing. Trust takes a long time
to build and a short time to destroy. I was astonished that her
considerable respect for you was crushed so quickly. But you need to
understand that I have been her preference for Chloe for a long time. I
took a great deal of time to come around, and only do so with
considerable support from my own family. It's a paranoid mis-appraisal
if you think I persuaded her. Based on your statements to me, I know you
experience paranoia. I know your considerable regard for Emily and lack
of information reaching you must contribute to your fearful
explanations. But I also know if you think I'm engaged in any crazy shit
like brainwashing, there's nothing to discuss.

Still, I continue inviting you over. I want to feed you all the answers,
like a cheater on a test. I want you to regain Emily's trust. Emily
wants you and me to work more effectively together. I think a chasm has
formed between us. And it may be impossible to bridge that. I don't
naviely expect the mutual regard we once held as friends. I solely hope
to protect Emily and Chloe. If you want to participate with me, you need
to escape some ideas you've developed. For example, you must engage with
Emily just as I do, when evaluating what she wants. It's not "guy talk"
when she's an adult. It's incredibly harmful to her trust for you when
you suggest she lacks competency. She got a dictionary and looked up the
term. She's sensitive to quips and one-liners, especially when she wants
to talk more deeply. Maybe you should just visit more often, even just
five minutes before work. If you devolve into bossypants McYeller, then
don't bother. I want to repair relations even if i think your fears and
pain make you erratic. I won't break my nuts trying. I have no
additional fealty to offer you. I tried deference to you as Emily's
father, but that was a dumb idea. Still, I am a competent adult, just
like Emily, and just like you, so I don't understand how a situation you
care so deeply about can be governed by such sugar-coated, naive notions
like: We just want square footage. We want a lot more than square
footage from our home. And I feel longer conversations hold all the
promise. You can't exert a lot of leadership with me through short
comments. That alone might disqualify us from working together.

I think it's good that Donna got to express her concerns to the adoption
coordinator. Repairing relations with Donna and putting her mind at ease
about her relationship with Chloe are two important goals of mine. Joni
asked Emily if she wanted Joni to communicate with you and Donna
further, and Emily said no. She said it was a mistake. Emily has been
remarkably consistent in what she wants. It's not what Donna wants, and
who knows what you want. I derive a huge amount of strength from Emily's
support. Joni had already decided how to evaluate me prior to hearing
from you, and her decision has not changed. But listen! When you or
Donna fail to accept and even appreciate what Emily wants, THAT MAKES
EMILY ANGRY. That's what I've wanted you to understand. Emily is very
strong, very sane, and very determined to see her wishes honored. She
shouldn't have to fight this hard. No amount of witty quips fix the
damage you can do with a lapse in genuine regard and support of her
wishes. You might have a vast ego telling you you're perfect. It simply
isn't complicated: Genuinely support Emily's wishes and you can regain
her trust. That is exactly how I gained it. Don't be paranoid. It's
simple. She has called you many names, and I've stood up for you.
There's exactly one way to win her whole heart back, and that's genuine
support for what she wants, for herself and for Chloe. It's liberating
to me that Emily drives so consistently and so hard. It helps me know
I'm in the right place doing the right thing. You can't crack a
foundation like that. And maybe you don't want to, but paranoia and
sorrow are powerful. If you love Emily, come by more often, spend a few
minutes with her, and see for yourself. Could it make us partners? I
struggle to trust charisma and intellect. They can make a cult leader,
but real leadership takes more than that. Nor do I know where you stand
on Emily's choice for Chloe.

Come by for the tub test! \[In the tub test, Emily would get in the tub
and Darin would help her get out. We had to do a tub test because Emily
became trapped in the tub at the duplex, where we lived in January only.
In that tub, her weak side couldn’t help. In our new tub it was fine.
But it was hard to convince Darin to come help with this test. What the
hell, I remember wondering at the time. I’m telling him how he can help
us… and he’s just kind of cranky and stuff, especially toward Chloe.

Trying, really trying, to help Darin win
----------------------------------------

There's something else I want you to understand. I keep inviting you
over because I want to spell it out for you, like a cheat sheet, the
answers to the test, because I want you to pass the test. And this is
the answer: The trust and regard you have with Emily rapidly
deteriorates when her decisions are not honored. Trust is hard to build
and easy to destroy. The most infuriating pattern to Emily is a lack of
regard for her choices. At this point she wishes and dreams that her
choice for Chloe would be met with support. She wishes Donna was happy
for her. We have come forward from the point where both you and Donna
were attacking me. The scope of your attacks caused Emily to lose
substantial trust. The scope of your attack caused me to realize your
sorrow mixes with your paranoia to make you erratic and unreliable. No
amount of winks and smiles and one-liners fix that. Trust is hard to
earn and easy to destroy. I know that any serious discussion with you
probably rolls around to you asserting authority which you certainly
don't have over me any longer, in terms and tones that just don't
persuade me.

One of the things Emily wants is much better cooperation between Donna,
you, and me. I've come to Tacoma and made my home for my family,
immediate family. I've done so after Emily's repeated requests.

I want to relay something to you that I've We have worked iwth many I
know I can be helpful giving you background or context to issues we
face, such as the bath tub or the recent MRI review, but I encourage you
to always ask Emily first when you have a concern about her.

I wish we worked more effectively together.

Emily and I hold the lease on this apartment. We are happy here. But if
you persuade her to move, of course I'll agree.

Unsent letter to Darin
----------------------

The reason I always, each and every time, suggest you come over and talk
with me, is because I want to tell you how this all seems from Emily's
perspective, and precisely why she's angry. Tonight she said, "I wish my
parents were happy for me." That really gets at the heart of why she's
upset. People are done treating her like an adult. And all I do is treat
her like one. Betrayal is disrespecting her and her choices. She feels
betrayed. Ask her.

I don't think Donna can, but I know you can.

I know you have three-word replies. I know I'm the easy target that lets
everyone avoid how she feels. And it just gets more sinister with so
much paranoia blending with sorrow. I can't fix you or what's going on.
It's drama, and it's a sink-hole, and I'm sad you are falling down the
hole, with your mom and your ex-wife and everyone. But the insult, which
occurs over and over again, is that Emily is not listened to and
respected. And so I listen to her and respect her. And that's a good
thing. I, too, wonder why you aren't happy for us.

Thank God I have a strong family who is happy for us.

If you can't help our home, leave us alone! But help to you means
helicopter in, get Emily in a car while you run errands, and talk at
her. Not listen. She came home so upset. If you saw her more regularly,
you would see how she used to be so upset, and now gets to have a
healthy emotional life. But you, in your dire fears, think it's all
opposite of that. You don't think she's clear-minded when she is. You
don't respect her adult choices. And so you have terrible ideas about
what's going on.

I can't fix it. But I can start calling the bullshit. And it won't
change your sorrow. But betrayed is what Emily felt since your
conversation with her prior to leaving for Mexico. I hope you can repair
it. I want to map it out like giving you the answers to the test.
Perhaps that won't happen. You walk away. Everyone walks away. Nobody
talks to Emily but me. You can change that in a snap. By LISTENING to
her. Face-to-face, using time. There is no reason you should feel like
you're losing her one moment before she's really gone. There's a prison
you made up. Make an answer for her: Why aren't you happy for her?
Because crazy fears are in charge, right? Right.

I am a convenient distraction for you.

At this point, no member of my family and no personal friend of mine has
been contacted for any reason by any investigator, even after three
investigations by CPS and one by APS, so I like talking about how
closely I coordinated every single hard choice I made with a broad group
of healthy, helpful, wonderful people. Emily Murphy invited me to raise
Chloe and after considerable consultation unlike any I’d experienced
before, I accepted fully and acted accordingly.

Andrea
------

Em said only Darin could stand Andrea. She is pretty insufferable.

His mother, Andrea, is my primary accusor in your letters, now exhibits.
She specifies two different dates of a sexual assault in that letter. I
wasn't in Mexico on either date. But she's so sure of dates, she says.

Says he loves truth
-------------------

Something always seemed strange at house. Illicit. Accusations of lying
were feared. Punishment for lying were severe. Emily warned me not to
lie to Darin. Yet everything Darin did in this case And the adoption
meeting was lying. In a calculated manner he intended to deceive
authorities and the court.

Two videos of Darin for your review:\
\
https://youtu.be/z\_b\_LU-hK0g\
\
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=JfqvFQoDcTg\
\
Wants to be liked. Technical. Charismatic. Wants control, even over
severe pain! Really interested in all the computers and information
equipment. Even the rules governing information, and going to jail, come
up.\
\
"I love my dad, but he's really screwed up."\
\
"You never get to know how he really feels. He only shows you what he
wants to show you."\
\
Emily said when Darin divorced Donna, his choices felt like "tearing"
inside her. But he redeemed himself with Emily by working hard over many
years to keep her alive. His rejection of her plan for Chloe--no, his
active, very underhanded sabotage--made her very angry again, with the
same feeling as when they divorced. "Like tearing."

Emily said losing independence was the worst part of actively dying, and
she insisted on being in charge as long as possible. For Darin to
actively undermine her plan for Chloe made Emily very angry. She wanted
her parents to be happy for her, and support her choices. Instead they
tried to make her into Victimized Vulnerable Brain Damaged Damsel.

At parenting class we studied conflict. They had lots of tips and plans
and approaches. It occurred to me in class that Darin does the opposite
of the right thing in conflict. If it's not going his way--especially if
he's not in control--he wants to up-end the situation with uproar,
confusion, fear, more conflict. And apparently he can't stop.
