Give very detailed responses. In addition, please provide me with the requested written documentation.
======================================================================================================

3. Will you be amending your petition to include Jason Dempsey as a party to the petition for custody since you have stated that he will be co- parenting? 
===========================================================================================================================================================

No. Both Jason and I reside in Jason’s house, in separate living areas.
This gives opportunities for us to share responsibilities and pool
resources, which we do well together. However, I am Chloe’s dad and
Jason is an uncle. The relationships are different and I have the final
authority, just as Jason has the final authority with regard to Epona.
This is consistent with the household where Jason grew up, which
consists of two families cohabitating but separate in law.

6. Please provide me with the full name, address and phone number of Jason’s current significant other, Ms. Jones. 
===================================================================================================================

Emily Anne Jones, 360-798-3454

7. Explain why she did not provide me with the DSHS authorization, as I had requested of all individuals over the age of 11 years old that would be living with or be having significant contact with Chloe, when this investigation started? 
==============================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

Until October, Emily Jones was the full-time care-giver for her
grandfather, so she wasn’t here very much. I understood your request to
pertain to people who resided with me in the house. My father, Herb
Dempsey, and my mother, Jeris Ockfen, intend to have significant contact
with Chloe, as does my sister, Jan Dempsey, and my brother, Jim Dempsey
and Paula Brown. This includes Chloe under their exclusive supervision
during family trips, which probably means significant contact. Most of
these people are mandatory reporters, but certainly we need to provide
them with DSHS releases, as their contact is likely to exceed the
contact of Emily Jones. I will start immediately on gathering 5
additional DSHS releases as soon as I finish this document.

8. Please provide the DSHS form requested and left with Ms. Jones on 10.13.14. 
===============================================================================

Delivered electronically November 6^th^, 2014.

9. Tell me about all of the CPS allegations that you have had, to date, against yourself, give the dates, name of the person or persons that made the allegations, what specifically were the allegations, and your response to the allegations. 
=================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

There are no allegations of CPS. There are allegations *relayed* *to*
CPS, none of which CPS has substantiated. In one of the complaints,
which you already have, the Tacoma Police Department even accompanied
CPS on the investigation, which was promptly closed.

CPS does not reveal names unless people provide waivers and
authorization to CPS to reveal their identities. However, I can present
the identity as provided in the report, and I can infer the identities.

CPS has investigated me three times, and closed three investigations.

1 - January 2013 – Andrea Mattson claimed I attacked Chloe by shoving my
hand into her shorts while we played during daylight on the sidewalk of
a residential Mexican street, during a trip on January 1, 2013. I
believe she also accused me of having an erection while playing with
Chloe. Finally, apparently someone at the wedding claimed to see me put
my hand under her dress. I have no specific recollection of any such
events. Furthermore, torrential rain turned the streets to streams on
January 1^st^, 2013, and no one was playing in the street.

2- January 2014 – Same accusation, same accusers, same response.

3 - May 2014 – CPS took action when a social worker asserted that I had
“caregiver collapse”. During the interview, Camille Johntson relayed the
following allegations:

a.  I speak to Chloe using words that mean the opposite of what I’m saying.
    -----------------------------------------------------------------------

b.  I jumped on Chloe.
    ------------------

c.  I bit Chloe.
    ------------

d.  I asked Chloe to perform a task while she was wearing a shirt and underwear.
    ----------------------------------------------------------------------------

Some combination of these allegations added up to “grooming” to Camille
Johnston, she said in the interview. As you know, she claimed I was so
dangerous that even supervised visits were a harm or threat to Chloe.
However, she has since closed this third case.

I do not know who made accusation (a) and (d), but for a time I did
speak to Chloe with a touch of satire, because she would present
fantastic and imaginatively re-engineered notions of the world that
conveniently happened to let her have anything she wanted. She’s
rhetorically very intelligent. Lampooning the presentation was
effective, and I strove not to be sarcastic. I have no specific
recollection of asking her to do anything while she wore a shirt and
underwear. I believe accusations (b) and (c) came from Chloe, but rather
than “hugging her and biting her neck softly” when she became rowdy, I
was containing her and growling and showing my teeth. Emily and I called
this discipline technique “time in” and Chloe can confirm what it is. I
learned it from an NPR episode where a child with severe disconnection
due to severe neglect was substantially helped by feeling contact and
connection with his adoptive parents. In our case, we used “time in”
since Chloe was three when she was asserting authority over us. “Time
out” is less effective. Instead we would just hold her and assert
authority, typically with a great deal of warmth and friendliness.
Chloe’s intellect allows her to run circles around many adults. It is
*not* a hostile interaction and that’s why she tended to hate it so
much. It causes her to feel awkward with continued assertion of
authority over us. The experience compelled Chloe to “come back to
reality” where she was the child and we were the parents again.

I’ve interviewed many parents since I met Camille Johnston. Chloe
dressed like every other 6 year old dresses. My mother, with 27 years as
a kindergarten teacher, told me that children develop their own modesty
starting around age 6. No parent has called Chloe’s activities (such as
watching cartoons in her room after a bath and wrapped in a towel)
unusual or harmful.

12. You stated that Jenny, Chloe’s aunt, dated a convicted sex offender. Where did he serve time in prison? How long? What was he convicted of? Did the family know about his past? If so, how did they handle that? What is Brian’s last name? How do you spell Jenny’s last name? Do you know how I can reach her? When did she end that relationship? 
=========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

I do not know where Brian served time, or for how long. I know he spoke
in more detail to Candace Zygar about his crimes and punishment, and
perhaps he also told Jenny Kennaugh. The family knew he had done prison
time for offenses (more than one) against minors. Donna welcomed him as
a guest in her house even after Jenny broke up with him. That must have
been around Thanksgiving, 201x. Jenny’s cellular phone number is:

Brian has also allegedly attempted to drug and rape her friend, who
described this attack to me in vivid detail during Darin’s Tacoma
wedding to Mariela.

13. Describe the incident in Mexico when Brian became drunk and abusive with Jenny, and the consequences of this action. Describe the incident when he kissed Chloe and the consequences of that action.
========================================================================================================================================================================================================

When Chloe was three, during a transfer of Chloe from Jenny and her
convicted sex criminal boyfriend from Jenny's car to my care in a
Seattle parking lot, I watched the sex criminal grab Chloe's head and
administer an inappropriate, smothering kiss. I told him not to kiss
Chloe again. I had deep concerns each and every time I knew Jenny put
this boyfriend in contact with Chloe, and I substantially question
Jenny's parenting judgment and setting of boundaries.I also feared when
Donna welcomed Brian into her home after Jenny had dismissed him.

14. Why do you believe that Donna’s daughters do not have their own free will to pursue their lives in the way that they choose? Why is it Donna’s fault, if they have not furthered their education and interests? 
====================================================================================================================================================================================================================

Research strongly links level of college attendance with the female
parent. The correlation is much stronger than for the male parent. When
the parent has not been a college graduate the gap can be closed with an
older sibling or a significant adult in the child’s life. I am that
significant adult for Chloe.

Research indicates that the decision to go to college is made in the
late elementary school years. That decision is built into a skill set of
academic competency and wide-ranging interests and the continuous
curiosity a long time before that.

Intergenerational educational politics is based on a whole series of
variables each of which is very dangerously judged by the exceptions.
Nobody in Emily's family even talks like they were in college; everybody
in my family holds at least one degree and probably several. I do not
understand where this line of questioning is headed with the notion that
I’m finding fault with Donna for something over which she has little or
no control.

I've seen evidence from research that decisions about which college to
attend and which specific majors to follow are fundamentally identified
in junior high school. A lot of those conclusions may become textual and
may be found in family language such as may occur in very casual
conversations over a croissant with tea.

When we get to broken families, single parents, this formula becomes
even more complicated because expectations for looking at both of
Chloe’s families, mine and Emily's, it probably isn't Donna's fault that
her daughters followed her model.

Donna shows little skill at synthesis, the central skill developed in
post-secondary education. Chloe shows tremendous potential for
synthesis. She will not find guidance from Donna. Perhaps this aspect of
Donna explains academic lack of interest and ambition among her
daughters.

I have a Bachelor of Arts degree and successful career in computer
software. Emily was acutely aware of the value of supportive and healthy
emotional behavior on outcomes and she and I spoke many, many times
about the pre-conditions for Chloe to seek and earn a post-secondary
education. My Dad related an early conversation several years ago in
which Emily asked, “Herb, why do some people go to college and some
never consider it?” He and Emily subsequently spent many hours taking of
such growth.

I got Ranger Rick for Chloe, a magazine she craves, where animals are
discussed and studied in detail. In our visit around October 25^th^, we
read Ranger Rick. She then requested we do some multiplication, about
which she said, "Do I learn it in 2nd grade? No! I learn it from This
Guy! \[referring to me\]" She proceeded to multiply rather large numbers
and together we examined techniques for handling larger multiplication
problems. I resolved to teach her math from an early age because I know
girls will fall behind in math due to social pressure when they’re 10
years old.

I teach math. 10 year old girl shakeout.  I've prepared Chloe for years.
None if Donna s children work in the sciences.

I work in the software industry. It is immensely dominated by men. Women
from Asian countries are also represented, which strongly suggests the
bias toward males is cultural. This bias appears throughout science and
engineering. One of my first promises to Emily made years ago was that I
would prepare Chloe to meet her potential in the sciences. Note visit
report of October 25ish where she specified me, rather than her school
teacher, as the party teaching her multiplication. Also note the “John
Dempsey school of Science, Division, and Multiplication” award she
prepared for me. Note my frequent visits with Chloe to the zoo, and my
subscription for Chloe to Ranger Rick magazine. Note that I taught Chloe
the game of chess, and played the strategy game Diplomacy with her as my
advisor. Note that I provide budgets when we go out, and let her
determine how she chooses to allocate the budget.\
I have no reason to believe Donna is concerned about this cultural bias
against females learning science, the result of which substantially
harms both personal and earning potential. Neither Donna nor her
children are engaged in math or science careers. Emily was adamant that
Chloe be exposed regularly to opportunities like the Seattle Science
Center, the Seattle Children’s Museum, and other science and engineering
learning experiences. I have been aware of the cultural barriers to
girls learning science throughout my career, and have learned that age
10 is the pivotal point where girls give up on science and math. Chloe
deserves to continue participating with me in the enthusiastic inquiry I
place on math and the sciences.

"Without freedom creativity cannot flourish." – Dalai Lama

15. You stated that you stopped using marijuana on March 23, 2014. When did you start using it? How frequently?
===============================================================================================================

Age 25, periodically, with months of cessation between months of daily
use.

At age 25 I had severe computer overuse syndrome including carpal tunnel
syndrome, which manifested in extreme pain in my hands and neck. I
immediately became a heavy marijuana smoker. Around 1999 I tried Bikram
yoga, also called hot yoga. At first it was extremely painful but
effective treatment for my hand and neck pain. In 2003 I developed
techniques for working with computers while l~~a~~ying down, which
substantially reduced the impact of computer use on my neck. In 2007 I
began doing Bikram yoga in the sauna at the YMCA. In 2009 I began pain
treatment rolfing with Mark Pearlscott. My use of marijuana reduced over
the decade as I discovered these pain prevention techniques. However I
remained a daily user most of the time until October 2013.

16. When is the last time that you and each of the Murphy daughters use marijuana? 
===================================================================================

Are you asking when we did so together, or asking about information I
have about their individual use? I am answering here about times we last
used marijuana together.

Sarah
-----

Sarah offered me her pipe and lighter at Dash Point Park while camping
around 2012, which I accepted.

Sarah gave marijuana oil as 2013 Christmas gift to Emily and to me, but
I think the last time I got high with Sarah was at Dash Point Park when
she offered it in her tent where she and Emily were getting high.

Emily occasionally provided marijuana oil she said came from Sarah
through her medical card. Sarah advocates for medical marijuana on her
Facebook page. Sarah asked me to provide marijuana to Emily to treat her
brain cancer. While I am open-minded about the medical potential of
marijuana in many cases, including pain management, Emily did not think
marijuana treatment was based in fact-based science, and said to Joni
Irvin and Joyce Robson that Sarah's view made Emily uncomfortable about
Sarah's parenting judgment.

### Views about marijuana

In discussion with Joni Irvin and Joyce Robson about the possibility of
Sarah adopting Chloe, Emily and I mentioned Sarah’s beliefs about
marijuana’s medical applications as lacking sound scientific foundation.
Emily supported evidence-based medicine. A very small percentage of
claims about medical marijuana meet this standard. This was one of many
details that made Emily opposed to Sarah raising Chloe. Sarah’s Facebook
page includes “420” in the URL, a reference to marijuana culture:

<https://www.facebook.com/smurquhart420>

<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/420_%28cannabis_culture%29>

30% of her posts and group memberships relate to marijuana as medicine.
I heard her describe marijuana as medicine to Kris, her son.

Melissa
-------

I am sure Melissa and I shared marijuana in the past but no specific
instance comes to mind. It must have been prior to 2014, perhaps prior
to 2013.

Jenny
-----

I shared a joint with Jenny and Emily in 2009 in Mexico. The marijuana
was provided by Darin through Mariela.

Emily
-----

Emily and I last enjoyed a small amount of marijuana together on or
before March 22^nd^, 2014.

17. Where and from whom did you obtain the marijuana?
=====================================================

Sources relevant to this investigation are Emily, Sarah, Darin, and
Mariela.

Darin asked Mariela to provide marijuana to Melissa and me while on a
visit to Mexico in 2012. Mariela said she felt uncomfortable
transporting the small amount of marijuana because it is unlawful there.
On two previous trips with Emily, Darin or Mariela provided small
amounts of marijuana to us.

18. Please give me a time line of all of your romantic relationships. Tell me when each one started and ended, the name of each person, and why the relationship ended. 
========================================================================================================================================================================

Emily Murphy
------------

2009 – 2014. Emily was a fierce, funny, and beautiful person. Early in
our relationship I felt pressured by her to commit, and I understand why
she felt that way, but I don’t like feeling pressured. She would use
many of the same tactics I see her mother and father use, badgering,
berating, and trying to manipulate me. I rejected all that, and we broke
off the romantic relationship. We remained friends and she remained
insistent that I remain Chloe’s Dad.

Melissa Burchett
----------------

2013\. Mel correctly identified that I loved both Emily and Chloe, and I
believe this made her feel threatened. She equated my love for Chloe
with mental illness. Despite dating Mel for about a year, I only said
once that I love her. She kept breaking up with me every few weeks, and
then changing her mind. I just ignored that rocky stuff, but it all
started to get to me eventually.

Her criticisms seemed to get stronger, more targeted at my love for
Chloe, and so apparently intolerant of me feeling love for anyone else,
including Emily in the intensive care. Then I got really sick. We are
not friends.

Emily Murphy
------------

I met Emily when she was 12. When we got together in 2009, Emily
demonstrated the behaviors that her family practices of badgering,
bullying, and manipulation. This was a major barrier to intimacy and
trust between us, and prevented our relationship from progressing
further. Last year in July our relationship shifted and we began moving
past those behaviors. In 2013 she asked me to move in with her and be
her "last boyfriend," and I did.

I returned to Emily because while I was with Melissa, Emily wasn’t
hostile, even though she told me later that it hurt. She said she was
happy for me to be with someone who made me happy. Melissa, in contrast,
hated any and everyone who competed for her attention. She hated Emily
and Chloe. I found that to be very unsettling. Emily and I also laughed
a lot easier than Melissa and I did. Emily valued honesty and gut
reaction. Things weren’t convoluted by intellectual games. She just
sought sincerity and real feelings. Early on in my relocation to Tacoma,
we had a hard conversation that turned out pivotal.

I was angry because she was nagging me to drive her to restaurants
rather than eat at home. I saw us falling back into the badgering trap.
She said Kyle had told her he would not drive her around Florida because
he’s, “Not a fucking tour guide.” This was very hard for her to say.
Once she said it, she didn’t badger me or guilt trip me or try to
manipulate me anymore. We went through a few other Ureka moments like
that, all the while very aware that the clock was ticking for us to
overcome obstacles or die trying. We fell in love unlike any I’ve felt
before. The relationship ended with her death, but often I think it’s
still with me strongly. I remain committed to her and to her clear
wishes. I wish all who claim to love her honored her clear wishes.

Akiko Oguchi, R.N.
------------------

Akiko is a smart and motivated person. I was her boyfriend throughout
her challenging 4-year nursing training at Seattle University. She
always wanted more, and her immigration status made everything
stressful. I felt there was something amiss, despite all the fun and
massive amounts of laughter we had together. It felt like she wasn’t
really able to share her true feelings with me. She was too nervous.
Maybe I was too intimidating. But without that honesty I couldn’t see
things working out. After she left, I regretted losing her. I went to
Mexico to get free of the memory of her. That’s when I met Chloe. Akiko
and I remain good friends.

Roya Naini
----------

Roya is a dynamic, creative person. She is a pinball champion. While I
dated her, she started a punk rock band. She likes making analog
photography and creating music. I think she just grew out of me, didn’t
want to hold my hand anymore, and just knew she wanted something
different. We remain friends.

Jessica Benezra
---------------

Jessica taught second grade. I met her the same day I decided to leave
Brooklyn. I spent two months with her. Then she came to see me in
Seattle. She liked Seattle, and had I pushed for it, she might have
relocated to be in Seattle with me. However, she is Jewish, and would
miss her family. We remain friends.

Ashley Balabanoff
-----------------

Ashley lived in Brooklyn, New York. We dated while she studied acting. I
had to return to Seattle to take care of my large house. I couldn’t
return until I finished what needed to happen to sell the house. I was
away too long. She moved on. We remain friends.

Anja Winter
-----------

Anja was an *au pair* from Germany on assignment in Seattle. We dated in
1998. She had to return to Germany, and I visited her in Berlin. We just
didn’t pursue the complexities of an international relationship. We
correspond occasionally and remain friends. She settled down with a
German man and works with children.

Dawn Devine
-----------

I dated Dawn during three separate periods. Each time it made a kind of
sense, but each time it seemed to become a dead end. We were very
attracted to each other. I saw her do some odd things like trust people
who shouldn’t be trusted. But I also saw her get her yoga training
certificate from Bikram himself. I admired her commitment to wellness
and healthy living. I wanted to understand her better. She opened up
more to me but I couldn’t make sense of what she said. I realized our
passion and attraction wasn’t enough. We don’t correspond much but we
are amicable.

Dena Reaugh
-----------

I dated Dena in 1991. She felt the relationship should not continue for
reasons that I don’t remember. She attended parties at the Murphy home.
We remain friends.

19. Give me a time line of when you started to have a relationship with Ms. Murphy, when it ended, when it started again, and the dates of when and where you and she co-habituated with one another. Please be very detailed. 
===============================================================================================================================================================================================================================

Does that mean the GAL wants me to list every weekend Emily and I
cohabitated? For a very long time Emily and I had what is sometimes
called an I-5 relationship and sometimes Emily would even ship Chloe to
Seattle and Emily would go elsewhere. As I remember I started showing up
for extended weekends with my family with Emily Murphy several years
ago. I suppose those co-habitations would be materially different from
our weekend visits because we had a tent and because you we lived in
sleeping bags? It might be interesting to list some of the places Emily
and Chloe and I went during the weekends that Emily came to Seattle but
I'm not sure if cohabitation includes Seattle Center or Gasworks Park.

20. Please explain, in detail, all of the time that you have spent with Chloe, from her birth, to present. Please state when Ms. Murphy was present during these interludes.
============================================================================================================================================================================

Milestones: I have been present for her first independent swing ride,
first ride down a slide, first full trip across the monkey bars. \`at
every birthday party for Chloe since she turned 2, where I typically
played a central role operating the pinata and providing gifts and food.
I taught Chloe to swim, ride a bike, and use the toilet (with Emily). I
was present when her first, second, and third teeth fell out. I have
attended every open house for Chloe's school, from pre-school to
Kindergarten to First Grade. I have taken Chloe to 4th of July overnight
camping every year since she was 3. I have taken Chloe to Christmas Eve
overnight at my sister's since she was 3, and consistently attended
Christmas and Thanksgiving events in Donna's home. I have taken Chloe
and Emily to my brother's daughter's birthday parties at Gasworks Park
in Seattle since she was 3. I have been with Chloe during 3 New Year’s
celebrations and 5 family wedding ceremonies. I attended Chloe's only
violin recital. At most family events I spend most of my time with Chloe
and her mother, Emily.

Mariela brought Darin and her children to my mother's house for
Thanksgiving. It was the year of the big snow. Mariela asked for a
recipe.

With Chloe, Wedding of Melissa and Rob, Jennifer and Rob, Jason and
Rainne. (Emily, Chloe, and John also attended the memorial wake of
Rainne later that year.) Both ceremonies of Darin's wedding to Mariela
(Tacoma and Mexico). Prior to Chloe's birth, I attended the second
wedding of Darin, and Donna's wedding to Richard. I am not aware of any
weddings of Chloe's immediate family that I missed.

Alice Manning was Donna's mother. Prior to Alice's passing I visited her
with Chloe and Emily at Alice's apartment, attended Emily's college
graduation with Alice and Chloe, and played piano at Alice's birthday
party in Seattle. I sought to visit Alice in hospice but Emily said
Alice was gravely ill and should not be disturbed. I missed the memorial
for Alice Manning due to another commitment, but with Chloe and Emily I
attended the Tacoma Youth Symphony concert dedicated to Alice.

I travelled with Emily and Chloe to New York City.

I travelled once with Emily and once with both Emily and Chloe to San
Francisco to accompany them while she received medical treatment there.

Memories with Emily and Chloe
-----------------------------

-   spanaway park lights 2013

-   First zipline

-   Many times on Monorail

-   Sunday night men’s choir at St. Mark’s Cathedral.

-   Two shows of Uncle Ned and Aunt Kate performing with
    their orchestra.

-   The one and only violin recital.

-   Twice to Wild Waves, and at least twice just to Enchanted Village.

-   I took Chloe and Emily to a water park in or near Tacoma on five or
    six occasions in the summer of 2013.

-   I was with Emily and Chloe at Ikea at least once, perhaps twice.

-   Three work sites visited with Em and Chloe

-   Burke Museum

-   History Museum (twice)

-   Puyallup Fair (twice)

-   Chloe and Emily had the flu at my house once.

-   Seattle Science Center more than once

Memories with just Chloe and me (Emily not present)
---------------------------------------------------

-   Zoo Lights with Ally, Jan, and Tom, January 2014

-   New Year's with Harry and Rachel at Jeremy’s party.

-   With Chloe and Mel overnight into my birthday 2012.

-   Singing club she directed played piano

-   Memory of running with her in my arms in the cold and rain to catch
    the bus on many weekends

-   Seattle Center many times!

-   I took Chloe to Kandle Park wave pool at least once alone in the
    summer of 2013.

-   Chloe spent the night sick at my house.

-   When I began residing with Emily and Chloe, Emily was already very
    tired from her condition. I became a care-giver immediately, and
    became the primary care-giver as Emily became more tired. In
    December, I joined Emily to walk Chloe to and from school. From
    January onward, I took Chloe to and from school, provided some
    after-school play opportunities, and cooked almost all meals. I
    sought to keep Emily active as long as possible, but her role became
    more symbolic, and I was the sole care-giver for the last 3 months
    of Emily’s life. **As Emily wished.**

21. Describe in detail about what you know about Donna and Darrin being engaged in group sex or the exchange of sex partners and drug parties in the 1980’s. How long did this type of lifestyle occur? How and when did you become aware of it? Please give me the names and phone numbers of the individuals that told you about this.
========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

the little blonde firefighter girl who spent a bunch of time talking to
me about how her daddy, an attorney by the way, would not even let her
go over to the Murphy's house because of all of those goings-on.

I was not aware at the time. However, on one occasion when I was about
22 Donna typed to me in an erotic way using a computer-to-computer
interface.

Bill, Allison

When I began dating Emily, she lived with Chloe in a small apartment.
Later she moved in with Donna and Richard to save money and get some
help with Chloe. I was reluctant to visit Donna’s home because it seemed
Donna didn’t like me. Donna called me and explained that she knows I saw
her do “immoral things” in the past, and she felt ashamed. I do not
recall seeing her do anything she might consider immoral, but I’ve heard
about extramarital sex from a friend who I trust, and also heard about
parties involving sex and LSD from another friend of Emily’s who I also
trust. Her parents appraised the Murphy home to operate under “no
rules/anything goes” governance. I don’t hold this view. Instead I saw a
strange mix of strictness, social insularity, and party activity.

I witnessed drunkenness of a young woman (Kim Swanson) who might have
been under 21. Darin assured she layed correctly so she would not drown
in vomit. I don’t know where she acquired alcohol.

Donna engaged with me sexually using a computer-to-computer connection
when I was 22.

22. Describe in detail what you observed and know about the strip club that you and others attended in Mexico. 
===============================================================================================================

The strip club’s name was Hysteria. It is a known tourist destination.
It contains an ATM. The dancers performed one at a time on a catwalk
while staff pushed overpriced drinks and ripped off drunk Americans. I
would describe it as dimly lit.

Darin said that all dancers sold sex, even those who say they do not.

23. Describe in detail the interaction of Darrin and his fiancé with the strippers, while in Mexico prior to their wedding. How old were all of the participants? Who else was present? Where were you? Who arranged the outing? Why did you choose to attend? Who cared for Chloe when you were in attendance? What did Darrin’s future spouse say about the event? 
=====================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

I sat in a chair at the end of some small drink tables. A stage was to
my left, along the left side of the little tables in front of me. Along
the right side of these tables sat Mark Deutsch, then Melissa Vulliet,
then Rob Vulliet, then Mariela Murphy. Darin Murphy sat in a chair you
might say was at the other end of the tables, face-to-face to me but at
some distance (the distance of 4 adults sitting side-by-side).

I witnessed Mariela and Darin engage in sexual contact with at least two
strippers/prostitutes ("entertainers") while drinking distilled alcohol.
Darin kissed and touched at least one stripper all over, who kissed and
touched him all over. Darin's third daughter and her husband also
employed entertainers for sexual contact while drinking distilled
alcohol. I did not engage in sexual contact with any entertainers, or
drink alcohol. Darin brought us to the club without warning. I would not
have joined if informed of the destination. During the evening I only
practiced Spanish with the entertainers I met, and provided modest
compensation for their time.

I estimate all participants to be in excess of 20 years of age. The two
I spoke with were single moms.

Chloe stayed with Mariela’s family while we were away.

Darin said later that a stripper he hired there asked for 25 (pesos or
dollars) to get cocaine. He told us that he declined to feed her
addiction. He sounded righteous about it. I remember thinking, “that’s
narcissistic,” because she was feeding his addiction.

Mariela said to me later that extramarital sexual relations were ok with
her so long as she remains the primary partner.

25. Tell me all that you know about Darrin Murphy.
==================================================

I’ve known him since I was a teenager, so my answers could go on for a
book. I’ve tried to focus on things I know that seem related to this
investigation.

I know Emily said these things about Darin Murphy:
--------------------------------------------------

-   “I want to give you everything you could need to keep Dad from
    interfering with the plan for Chloe.”

-   Emily told me Darin carried on sexual relations with both Donna and
    Dina in the same period of time.

-   Around January 2nd, 2014, Darin rang Emily’s phone and mine
    after bedtime. He refused to communicate via text. He explained his
    car was in the shop, and he needed to borrow hers. She cried as he
    drove over, and said, “He thinks he can just show up. Then he can go
    back to his family. It’s not fair.” I held her to comfort her.

-   The second time she cried, her father had taken her for a drive.
    During the drive he explained his view that she was being abused.
    She came home and began crying when I hugged her. She said, “I like
    how we talk about our feelings here.”

-   Darin is very charming to strangers. In Madigan hospital, as Emily
    and I tried to get a urine sample, we listened to Darin charm an
    old man. This annoyed Emily, because she sensed it was all fake.
    Emily had an attraction to authenticity and the truth. She said “You
    never get to know what Darin really thinks. He only shows you what
    he wants to show you.”

-   She made a rule that we were not to discuss her father in the house.

I know Darin Murphy said these things to me:
--------------------------------------------

-   “I felt manipulated.” – This was Darin’s response to the meeting at
    Howard Dempsey’s, suggesting I should feel guilty. Guilt is the
    family national anthem. In that meeting, Emily and I floated the
    idea that Darin and Mariela raise Chloe. At that meeting, at the
    end, Darin asked, “What’s in it for you, John?” This seemed like a
    strange question to me. In a previous interaction he had already
    agreed that there are mental health problems at Donna’s home. I
    wanted to help Chloe reach a safer, healthier environment. What did
    he think my motive *might* be? Of course in his declarations he
    argues that my intention was to secure access to Chloe so I could
    sexually victimize her. Darin plays on fear whenever he can. But at
    that time, and perhaps to this day, he doesn’t comprehend that I
    want Chloe to have a healthy life with healthy people. What a
    radical thought!

-   “This elevator is inadequate for Emily’s needs.” - Suggesting I
    should defer to his authority on adequacy of elevators. He said we
    should move.

-   “I want her to have some comfort. I’m supporting my daughter! What
    are you doing?” - Suggesting I should feel guilty and that he’s the
    righteous one. Actually this is his only statement that had an
    impact on me.

-   “You’re paying a pretty penny!” - Suggesting I’m an idiot, and
    should defer to his authority on real estate rental rates. In fact,
    the rent was not high, was stable (all utilities except electricity
    included), the view was incredible, and the location was about as
    convenient and fun as Tacoma gets. Emily paid less per month than
    she paid to Donna. Square footage is simply not the only way to
    think about real estate. I was supposed to feel like an idiot for
    thinking so.

-   Once in Mexico I paid for everyone’s meal. He said, “You’re a good
    guy, John. Others might not know it, but I know it.” He was kinda
    joking, but it seemed like a strange, demeaning statement masked as
    a joke. I had, after all, paid for everyone’s lunch.

-   I know he was willing to disregard Emily's clear and consistently
    stated wish for full recessitation and life support. He described
    this change to me as being "easier for the family, including Chloe."
    He also justified this to my father and step mother in a conversion
    I did not hear.

-   On two occasions Darin described Andrea as being “manic”. Once she
    was making urgent requests for food or cooking purchases that Darin
    would not satisfy, because she was being “manic” in his view.

-   Darin sought Emily’s cellular phone one week before her death. He
    said this was “in case her friends call”. This did not make sense
    to me. Emily had stopped answering her own phone regularly over a
    month prior. Her friends would just call me. I had referred them all
    to Mariela’s phone. So what friends was he referring to? How would
    she answer? As well, I knew her phone was an authentication key to
    her financial, social, and personal accounts, such as email,
    Facebook, and Tapco. She had entrusted me with her finances and
    email as her Financial Power of Attorney, and as the Executor of
    her Estate. It was not financially prudent to release this
    authentication key to any other party for any reason. I explained
    this position twice. His response was: “John! John! Her cell phone
    is her cell phone!” He then hung up as I responded politely that the
    device would not leave my custody. He continued demanding it in
    person, using notes. Had she sought to entrust her finances and
    personal communications to him, I imagine she would have placed him
    in these legal roles, or provided him with passwords. Based on his
    hostility and my understanding of Emily’s friendships, I doubt his
    stated motive—that friends might call. Call forwarding could solve
    that problem, for example.

-   Darin told me his second wife stole from him (\~\$100,000) and he
    worried she was plotting to kill him, so the family of his third
    wife asked if he needed her killed. He said he declined.

I know other people said these things about Darin Murphy:
---------------------------------------------------------

The hospice nurse said, “I don’t even want to talk about him” after
being exposed to him and interacting with him many times.

Bettina’s father said, “Oh, Darin’s finally interested in being a
father?!” Bettina said that he said Darin was an absent father during
the childhood of his four daughters.

Darin’s third wife Mariela was battered by the father of her first
child, Juan. That should be in the adoption record because I believe it
was discussed or declared in Mariela’s adoption request.

I have observed these characteristics or deeds of Darin Murphy
--------------------------------------------------------------

### Deeds

Based on his declarations I know he is willing to mislead.

Emily often cried after speaking with her parents.

Once during a visit to Darin’s home, probably Emily’s last visit on her
own two feet, I read a book to Chloe while Darin worked on some computer
task. Mariela asked him if he was sure he wanted to work rather than
just talk to us. He worked instead, sort of talking while he worked, and
drove away to deliver a package at the FedEx or UPS office. Emily
commented later that Darin didn’t notice me reading to Chloe, and this
seemed to make Emily angry or disgusted. I think she tried hard to make
her parents understand and accept her choice regarding me and Chloe. She
would note with disappointment every time I was obviously doing healthy
things with Chloe which they just didn’t see for some reason.

I know his ability to love is severely impaired because he claimed both
Emily and Chloe were experiencing abuse, and he worked two blocks away
from our apartment on Tacoma Avenue, yet he rarely visited for months.

I know he says severely critical things in meetings that he does not say
in private, 1:1, conversations. In other words he would have a cheerful
conversation with me, 1:1, and the next day begin severely criticizing
me in a meeting of authorities. This is clearly dishonest and
manipulative. Darin seemed unable to talk seriously with me
individually. When there was a group, he would explode. A group of
experts or authorities made him explode the most. But individually he
never had any concerns or feedback. Except I think once he discussed
Emily’s medication. He never discussed his serious allegations against
me with me, perhaps because he knew they were fabrications.

Once I made him laugh. It was after he made the far-reaching allegations
at the second adoption meeting. He asserted that I don’t sleep with
Emily, in her bed. Soon thereafter he was at my house, and I explained
where I sleep, “contrary to popular myth.” This made him laugh because
he knew his claim was a fabrication.

Darin is a uniquely good negotiator because he reads people well.
However, he’s very willing to become badgering and threatening when he
doesn’t get his way.

Darin visited even more rarely. He would bring food Emily couldn’t
digest, causing her to vomit later, after he was gone. He’d leave 2
liters of Coke in the fridge, which I would discard. He seemed to treat
her suffering as a party, and our home as a place to rush into with an
entourage. Only twice did he come alone. He continued working two blocks
from the apartment throughout this period.

Darin never used the call box. He always snuck into the building and
arrived at the apartment door. He rarely called ahead, and never called
me, even though I was Emily’s care giver.

When Emily relocated, her father prepared a POLST (Physician Orders for
Life-Sustaining Treatment) form that specified no recessitation efforts
to be made (Do Not Recessitate, DNR). A POLST form is not valid unless
signed by a physician. I only saw the unsigned POLST hanging in Emily’s
room. The signed form was hidden

under other papers on the kitchen refrigerator. I did not understand why
an unsigned POLST was presented as her instructions at her bedside. She
confirmed with me many times that she wanted all forms of life extension
and recessitation. If the POLST was signed by a physician before her
death, I suggest asking to see it, and following up with the physician
whose name appears.

During a trip to San Francisco paid for by the Wounded Warrior Fund, a
private fund for injured marines, I bought everyone's lunch. Darin asked
for the receipt because the fund would compensate him. This was theft.

At Emily's internment Darin shook hands and asked my older brother, "you
are John's brother? I hope we can put this family conflict behind us."
His activity in court showed no intention of doing so at that time. My
brother said his name and Darin shook his head as if the name was
unimportant.

At the 2^nd^ adoption meeting, Darin interrupted my sister to object to
the tone of her voice. My sister is very level headed, reasonable, and
considerate. She is a project manager for a multinational corporation.
Darin uses every technique to control meetings. He will be totally
cheerful one on one and vicious in a meeting moments later. All of his
behavior is an act intended to control others. Nothing is genuine. This
is consistent with Emily's view that her parents are “fake.”

Darin reached a rank where he was the commander of fire stations. All
personnel in the station were under his command. Then he switched to
answering 911 calls. He is highly ranked in seniority and presumably
draws a high salary. it is suspicious that the department now employs
him to answer phones as a dispatcher.

### Relationships

He said his 2^nd^ wife Dina isolated him and he believed this was what
Emily was experiencing. But it didn't inspire him to come over. I have
many photos of Emily with friends during this period.

Darin discussed the availability of hit men in Mexico, where he owned a
time-share condo in the more-American part of town, north of Puerto
Vallarta. (Nuevo Vallarta.) He called his condo and someone answered,
which was unexpected. Darin believed his wife to be ruthless and greedy,
and he believed his status as her spouse might incentivize her to have
him killed so she would receive both assets and fire department pension.
Some member or members of Mariela’s family reportedly asked if he needed
to have someone “taken care of” and he declined this offer. Darin
explained that Mexico is a place where people just “disappear”.

Emily was Darin's favorite daughter. He worked hard to get her to
surgery in San Francisco many times. I often reflected that she’s the
most beautiful woman who ever loved him.

Darin associated with Ted Fix, who was convicted and imprisoned for
modifying and selling firearms in an unlawful way.

Dina was angry with Darin for watching pornography. She believed he
needed therapy to cease this pattern. He disagreed.

Donna complained to me when I was about 21 that Darin did not spend
adequate time with his children, and asked me to discuss it with him.

Darin’s second wife Dina seemed vain and manipulative. He described her
as controlling, and said she isolated him from friends and family. Emily
confirmed that she prevented Darin from attending the wedding of Sarah
and Greg. Darin showed an example of a photograph where she had cut
Donna out of a picture where Donna posed with her daughters.

### Psychology – Control

Darin is incredibly territorial and uncomfortable with situations he
does not control. He became visibly rattled once when I used his laptop.
His wife spoke in a nearly fearful tone about the implications and risks
of borrowing his car and changing any car settings. He must have
absolute control of everything.

Darin said to Joni Irvin and my father and step mother and me on three
occasions that he was supporting his daughter. He seemed to argue that
she was under a spell or too brain-damaged to identify me as a child
molester. He appeared to believe this authorized him to support Emily by
actively opposing her plan for Chloe. I would believe this logic, too,
if it were actually based on facts.  And What support, after all, did he
provide? He told Emily he could not be around me after the second
adoption meeting where I was asked to speculate on his motives and said,
"I believe he feels extremely uncomfortable,  to the point of pain, when
faced with a situation he cannot control." In the face of an onslaught
of recriminations and abusive speech directed at my sister and myself,
through unusually hostile interruptions, I was able to say little else
at this meeting. He took Emily to precisely one medical appointment
during this period, while I took her to at least fifteen. He visited her
once alone, so briefly that she took offense. Based on the clear chasm
between his deeds and his words I know he is incredibly dishonest about
his motives.

Darin shows a keen understanding of people’s weakness. I have read that
sociopaths prey on weak people and stay away from equally strong people.
They look for sad, insecure, lost people because they are soft targets.
Donna might be described this way.

I believe Darin is what I would call a sociopath. Some, perhaps most
sociopaths, are not arbitrarily violent. Sociopaths are highly
narcissistic, and view other people as means to their end. There is no
motive for Darin to harm Chloe. Sociopaths occasionally use single
instances of explosive anger to demonstrate the violence they are
capable of. Darin routinely mentioned the threat and possibility of
corporal punishment to keep Chloe from misbehaving. Darin would only be
dangerous to someone who he could not persuade with charisma, smear with
plausible accusations, or silence with emotional abuse. Violence is not
a first resort with a sociopath, because it includes a lot of risk.
Other tactics are more effective. A sociopath is Machiavellian and
highly intelligent. Chloe shouldn’t fear violence from Darin, but I do
because I’m explaining all of this (answering your questions
thoroughly), and perhaps you should, also, especially if your
investigation “corners” him.

Emily felt angry when she saw Darin watching pornography in San
Francisco during her last trip there. She mentioned it at least three
times as something that made her very disappointed. I think there is a
lot of hypocrisy in the family. There is a very righteous standard and
there is massive guilt, including self-guilt, when the standard isn't
reached. Darin told me he did see a therapist who felt his pornography
interest was not the problem, and his wife was.

He advocated for the first attorney. He said the problem sounded like
something a phone call could resolve. I had studied the email, and
Natalie Dong studied it,  and later Brianne Kampbell studied it.  It was
clear and unambiguous. My sister Jan, the Bridges counsellor, Dr. Dong,
and Ms. Kampbell all suggested a new attorney was the best course to
resolve the impasse.

THE EGO in this comparison chart describes many characteristics of Darin
Murphy. Emily was routinely bothered by his apparent materialism, the
materialism of his 2^nd^ and 3^rd^ wife, and Sarah’s status orientation
toward name brands. Emily was much more attracted to the characteristics
this chart calls THE SOUL, and I am also oriented toward these ideals
and values.

![](media/image1.jpeg){width="3.5311406386701663in"
height="6.499305555555556in"}

### Weapons

He also has an extensive cache of weapons. When I worked for him, I
believed he was armed adequately to outfit a militia. He stored these
weapons in his attic office, which was frequently unlocked. I do not
know if the weapons were loaded. I never touched them. I do not know if
they were loaded or unloaded.

Darin was a member of the Washington State National Guard, where he
maintained skills as a marksman.

Darin owned property in rural Piece County where he fired guns and
detonated explosives.

### Relationship with Kyle Coker

Darin and Kyle Coker had no previous association.

Kyle identified in court that Darin was planning to host him for a visit
in late August. Heather Young asked Commissioner Johnson if he would
like to hear from Darin about the plans to host Kyle. Kyle (or someone)
produced a \$70 gift certificate for Chloe to visit Toys-R-Us. CPS
authorized Kyle to contact Chloe via telephone. Chloe said to me, “Now
Kyle wants to meet me!” And then the commitment to reunification
literally disappeared when the estate money was placed in professional
hands. Darin stopped attending hearings. Kyle himself disappeared
completely.

This says some things about Darin and his “commitment” to Chloe. It says
some things about Kyle and his “whole-hearted love” for Chloe. Those
guys can fall in a lake for all I care, but **what does this behavior do
to Chloe?** I interpret that out of pure spite and a scheme for control
of money, Darin recruited Kyle to assert his parental right, Heather
Young propped Kyle up with legal help which included a pleading request
for the trust to be placed with Darin and the child to be placed with
Donna, and when the money scheme became impossible due to Eileen
Peterson’s veto power (and mine) over control of the money, the whole
plan fell apart and the boys retreated. Their motives seem obvious now,
and I strongly hope Kyle Coker is not welcomed back into Chloe’s life
again so he can abandon her a third time. That’s the piece of this that
upsets me most today, that Kyle would say he loves her and then abandon
her again, and that Darin Murphy made this possible through support
without regard to Chloe’s emotional well-being. I had prepared to talk
to Kyle during his visit, perhaps with Chloe present, perhaps to help
Chloe comprehend the massive turn of events Kyle had the capacity to
bring about, but he turned out to be even less of a father than I
imagined.

### Unclassified

Publishing this probably prevents me from residing in Tacoma again.

After the final adoption discussion Emily said Darin doesn't like being
around me. After his intel-gathering visit he told Melissa he has had
enough of me for the day.

Shows his belief that someone he married would seriously consider having
him killed for money. Perhaps this speaks to Emily's statement that her
parents have fake marriages. My own view is that treacherous people
often end up together.

This Wikipedia page provides uncanny insight into Darin Murphy:\
\
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychological_manipulation>\
\
In paricular I wish to point out:\
\
Vilifying the victim: More than any other, this tactic is a powerful
means of putting the victim on the defensive while simultaneously
masking the aggressive intent of the manipulator.\
\
Who is villainous--him or me--is an exercise I leave to the reader.\
\
Seduction: Manipulator uses charm, praise, flattery or overtly
supporting others in order to get them to lower their defenses and give
their trust and loyalty to him or her.\
\
He's very charming. Donna is still very much under his spell and does
what he wants. Emily said she still loves him.\
\
Feigning innocence: Manipulator tries to suggest that any harm done was
unintentional or that they did not do something that they were accused
of. Manipulator may put on a look of surprise or indignation. This
tactic makes the victim question his or her own judgment and possibly
his own sanity.\
\
That's what he did when Emily confronted him at Bridges about Andrea's
phone call.\
\
Feigning confusion: Manipulator tries to play dumb by pretending he or
she does not know what the victim is talking about or is confused about
an important issue brought to his or her attention.\
\
That's what he did when I called him to discuss that Emily had changed
her mind back to Donna from him.\
\
Brandishing anger: Manipulator uses anger to brandish sufficient
emotional intensity and rage to shock the victim into submission. The\
manipulator is not actually angry, he or she just puts on an act. He
just wants what he wants and gets "angry" when denied.\
\
That's what he did when I explained I would not release Emily's cellular
telephone from my custody.\
\
Lying: It is hard to tell if somebody is lying at the time they do it,
although often the truth may be apparent later when it is too late.\
One way to minimize the chances of being lied to is to understand that
some personality types (particularly psychopaths) are experts at the\
art of lying and cheating, doing it frequently, and often in subtle
ways.\
\
Of course this entire case against me is based on lying, not explicitly,
but by selectively choosing details, presenting innuendo\
rather than facts, and lying by omission.\
\
Guilt trip: A special kind of intimidation tactic. A manipulator
suggests to the conscientious victim that he or she does not care\
enough, is too selfish or has it easy. This usually results in the
victim feeling bad, keeping them in a self-doubting, anxious and\
submissive position.\
\
I think he realized this just doesn't work on me. But he did appeal to
my love for Chloe as a reason I should let him change Emily's POLST.\
\
\
Playing the victim role: Manipulator portrays him- or herself as a
victim of circumstance or of someone else's behavior in order to gain\
pity, sympathy or evoke compassion and thereby get something from
another. Caring and conscientious people cannot stand to see anyone
suffering and the manipulator often finds it easy to play on sympathy to
get cooperation.\
\
This is what he did when Emily confronted him about Andrea's voicemail
message. I think he did this quite a bit behind the scenes to organize
declarations against me.\
\
Playing the servant role: Cloaking a self-serving agenda in guise of a
service to a more noble cause, for example saying he is acting in a\
certain way to be "obedient" to or in "service" to an authority figure
or "just doing their job".\
\
This one is classic Darin Murphy. He is here for Emily! He cares about
Chloe! He cares about safe housing!

26. Do you believe that Chloe should have unsupervised contact with Darrin Murphy? Why or why not?
==================================================================================================

Emily expressed to me that she felt sorry for Mariela’s kids. I said,
“Mariela’s kids were raised in a cinderblock village with few amenities
in a country with little opportunity amidst a decade of civil war. Now
they are receiving a first-world education.” To which Emily said,
“Touche’.”

Emily said clearly to me the day she signed the will that she wanted to
give me every tool I might need, “To keep Dad from interfering with the
plan for Chloe.”

I personally think Darin is emotionally very damaged. He uses incredible
charisma to persuade people to believe, help, and follow him. I
witnessed him organize a massive smear over many months to control both
Emily and Chloe. Emily said many times Darin has no relationship with
Chloe. Emily just saw “grumpy grandpa,” as she put it. I think he’s
utterly untrustworthy. But I’m proud to say I’m likely to get Chloe’s
inheritance into professional hands. So what would Darin do? Harm her
physically? He does use brief instances of severe pain to assert his
authority. This is typical among emotional manipulators and sociopaths.
He might spank her painfully, just to show her how much pain is
available from him. I deeply disrespect this mentality. Would he
psychologically harm her? Only with a motive. I don’t think he’d even
bother trying to estrange her from me anymore. What would be the point?
The money is out of his reach now. Now he just needs to go through the
motions of believing his long list of accusations, but overall I bet he
wants all this to disappear. I could be wrong.

Chloe told me Darin wants to take her to Mexico in December, where he
goes every year.

This incident might suggest to you what kind of controller and dominator
Darin is:

“Report of an incident with Darin Murphy on 02 June 2014

Emily had died the previous day. My wife, Pat, and I drove my son John
Dempsey to visit Emily's body at the home of Darin Murphy in Ruston.
Emily was in bed in a small room off the living room and Pat suggested
to Darin that they give John and Emily some time alone.

Darin said, ‘Sure we can talk out on the porch.’ We all went out to the
porch where we stood silently for about 20 min. watching the neighbor’s
construction project and doing very little talking. After about 20 min.
of standing there, I looked at Pat and said, ‘Perhaps somebody should go
in and check on John.’

Darin immediately folded his arms across his chest, bowed his neck and
said, ‘I wish you wouldn't!’ The move was sudden. The anger was real and
we both looked at him like he had totally slipped over the edge. He
seemed to realize that he had somehow been inappropriate and he
immediately began shaking his head and saying, ‘That's not what I
meant.’ We continued to look at him as if he were plainly nuts and I
said, ‘It's your house you can do whatever you want to.’

The environment was charged with tension as we waited and after a couple
of minutes he finally said, ‘Yes, why don't you go and check on John?’
Pat went back into the house and a couple of minutes later appeared with
John we walked to the car and left.

I would suggest anyone dealing with Darin Murphy treat him with the
utmost respect as he is volatile and appears perpetually angry. I have
known subject Murphy since the 1980’s.” - Herb Dempsey

Knowing he acted without regard for Chloe, trying to destroy the most
positive relationship in her life out of spite and for financial gain,
knowing he collaborated with her absentee birth father, giving him a
second opportunity to abandon Chloe, knowing Emily saw him as having no
relationship with Chloe, yet hearing him claim such concern for her,
while showing such disregard for her. Knowing he subjected your lover,
sweetheart, and muse to vicious psychological abuse for financial
motives, claiming to love her the whole way. Knowing he abused me with
every method and tool he could plausibly get away with, subjecting me to
severe psychological abuse, attempting to damage my reputation, all to
serve financial motives and his abusive need to control everything in
the world around him, including people... would you want Chloe to be
near him ever again? Why or why not?

27. Describe in detail why you state that you engage in “play therapy” with Chloe during your encounters with her.
==================================================================================================================

I have prepared Chloe for bereavement over many months, even years.
Specifically I prepared her to accept me as her new primary care-giver.
This entailed strengthening the relationship we have. I wanted her to
understand she had a non-judgemental, eternally committed, unflappable
adult in her life who puts her first and accepts her as she is. This is
consistent with the Rogers school of therapy, called person-centered
therapy.

I have exposure to theories of personality development and fundamentals
of therapy through university-level study, personal relationships with
therapy professionals, professional relationships with therapists and
counselors who understood Chloe’s needs during Emily’s illness and
Chloe’s parental bereavement. I also have hands-on experience with
children, including children with special needs, including academic and
volunteer engagements at all age levels. I am neither a professional
educator nor a professional therapist. However, I reflected on the
purpose and focus of my relationship with Chloe over the many years it
has evolved. Ultimately I embraced the necessity that I must maintain a
strong, healthy, ultimately parental relationship informed by my
experience and understanding of her emotional needs.

The more kids can play in their lives the more they can be kids. Of
course that may overly simplify the rather technical therapeutic meaning
of the term "play therapy" but it implies that I’m willing to let kids
express themselves as kids while you get to be a part of their world.
When possible, they get to set the terms of the playing.

One reason I mentioned “play therapy” to you is because Donna Mairs
described the essence of my relationship with Chloe in the following
interaction.

Me: “Chloe has three good options.”

Donna: “Three?”

Me: “You, Darin, and me.”

Donna: “You? You are a child!”

Me: “I am an adult.”

Donna: “You act like a child and that’s why Chloe likes you.”

I want to put to rest this kind of thinking. A lot of experience and
intention goes into my relationship with Chloe, so I do not concur with
Donna’s appraisal.

28. Define “play therapy” and what it means to you. 
====================================================

Play therapy uses play to communicate with and help children, especially
those experiencing psychosocial challenges. Children are unique from
adults in that most children understand play intuitively, while adults
are often alienated from their own impulsivity and playfulness by
“socialization” into “responsible” behavior. Children tend to reveal
exactly what’s going on in their mind because the window into their mind
and soul is unfogged and clean as they engage in play. It just takes
some observation and provision of symbols they can work with.

I group play therapy into different forms.

Play Therapy
------------

Least structured. The younger the child, the more straightforward the
symbols are. Mom, dad, me, home.

Art and Music Therapy
---------------------

More structured, more dialectical, more able to draw on cultural
signposts such as existing songs.

Chloe is very receptive to music, and music-based Art therapy is
appropriate as a child grows and seeks deeper answers or help.

Wikipedia has a good discussion but then there are lots and lots of
others that are just as good. Probably worthwhile to know there are
elements of playing involving characters and context but usually the
setting is pretty standard and the younger the kid the more the settings
look like something out of a small hardcover book. As my Dad says, “I
used to have fun during the 60s because I didn't know much about black
folk and when I was being trained in multiculturalism I really had some
fun psycho dramas playing in the world which I still don't understand.
We change the rules considerably, probably to make it easier for those
of us who were not, but the fundamentals of play therapy provide a
window to the soul.”

29. Explain why this is the way that you choose to engage with Chloe. How long have you employed this style of encounter? Is (are) there any other ways that you choose to engage with her? If so, what?
========================================================================================================================================================================================================

In addition to play therapy you also have a particularly useful tool in
your ability to simplify complex intellectual notions into a very
systematic concrete and sequential dialectic. You can restrict the
vocabulary but still follow the Socratic methodology to where you're
particularly effective. My mother tells of taking the kids to
kindergarten and how I was the only one of her three children who ever
really entered into the teaching process. My Dad remembers a talk with
Kenn Robinson, years ago, where he was teaching computers and I had
already taken programming classes at Pacific Lutheran and I was now a
student teaching his students. Robinson was absolutely impressed with my
ability to reduce complex and interrelated concepts to junior high
school kids in junior high school language.

From my Dad, “I've watched you engage with Chloe as a caring parent
while she simply sat on your lap and felt secure and then she would
probably jump up and go off and create another situation, exhaust its
potentials and herself, and come back and sit on your lap and recharge.
I don't find it much different than thousands of engagements with
thousands of kids by thousands of parents that I've observed over a very
long time. You like to cook together. She loves to cook mushrooms and
corn and stuff. Is that an engagement? Of course it is.”

During the visit you observed, I would describe interactions as
unstructured play. Certainly you saw interactions and positive
reinforcement, and just plain encouragement and positive support. You
saw me explaining how pool is played, and you may have noticed how
little I care about playing “right”. I do introduce Chloe to rule-based
systems like chess, pool, golf, math, bowling, and other systems. Those
interactions do not emphasize her emotional health. When I let her
change the rules, that’s when the relationship enters into an area where
she can more easily reflect on her inner dialogue and solicit or receive
my responses. I spend a lot of time encouraging her and exposing her to
math and the sciences, where there are known answers to discover which
describe the outside world well, rather than describing her inner-world.

I am also an authority. When I instruct her to relinquish her golf
putter rather than wielding it like a weapon, or set boundaries about
climbing on things in a fun-plex, or choosing food that won’t make her
flip her lid, I’m being an authority figure. It’s likely Chloe will have
a rocky relationship with authority figures based on her personality and
history. Knowing this, I maintain both the emotionally empathetic
relationship as consistently as the authority relationship, while
maintaining the “teacher” relationship so she has healthy things to
focus on and learn about, almost as a distraction to her rage.

I’ve noticed within the context of supervised visitation and ongoing
alienation efforts by Donna Mairs that Chloe has moved more explicitly
to the “make-believe” world to express and explore herself. For many
visits she was adamant and explicit about wishing to reside with me in
Seattle. Then I believe Donna Mairs discouraged her from these explicit
expressions, so she made them subtler in play. In the November 1^st^
visit, she drew a floor plan for the house where she wished to reside,
which included a room for me and one for her. But on June 20^th^ she
created a beautiful sand sculpture with adorning shells and seaweed
attire. She then aggressively destroyed the sculpture while explaining,
“The queen died, the castle fell, and the king and the princess were
blasted apart.” Whether this is intuitive play or subversive
representations doesn’t matter. It’s her inner dialogue with obvious and
clear meaning. It is the central concern that permeates all of her
thinking, both imaginative and concrete.

30. How did you learn about “play therapy?” Please give me the persons’ names, addresses and phone numbers from whom you have learned about “play therapy.”
===========================================================================================================================================================

Herb Dempsey, father, 253-847-6819

Jeris Ockfen, mother, 253-847-1784

Daniel Masler, friend and child psychotherapist, 206-406-2624, 1307 N.
45^th^ Street, Suite 200, Seattle, WA 98103

Nir Sadovnik, friend and music psychotherapist, 646-319-3466

Martin Bullard, child psychotherapist, 206-283-4360, 2206 Queen Anne Ave
N, Seattle, WA 98109

Jerome and Carolee Johnson, friends and community leaders,
1-360-866-9177,

Art therapist at Gilda’s Club

31. What manifestations have you uncovered in the play therapies that are complex and painful to Chloe? Describe in detail these incidents and when, where and why you believe this happened.
=============================================================================================================================================================================================

In two recent visits (October and November, 2014), Chloe as a princess
endlessly striking down warriors. It's her attraction to this play that
stood out. It was a bit sweaty and unpleasant for me to dance around and
get whacked with a plastic sword but she didn't want to stop. Why? The
play kids engage in typically mirrors their inner dialogue. Chloe may
see herself as an intrepid and divinely authorized warrior against an
army of opponents. While not unusual for her age, the symbolism may be
particularly resonant for her current position as a child feeling weak
against adults clearly fighting around and over her.

Once she had assigned me to be an animal and asked me to reside with her
under the deck. Actually I found it cold under the deck so I moved into
the sun. I said (in character) that I preferred to live here. She became
passive aggressive, saying I could choose to live there but I would be
eaten by animals and she would not feel sad for me when that occurs,
because I declined her help. I expressed sadness and surprise that she
would not feel sad for me. I asked if she could simply move into the sun
also. After determining guilt and fear were not effective, she became
more empathetic and decided to instead build a "house" next to mine and
protect me.

In another role play, Chloe calls me “momma” and I know we are bobcats.
The momma bobcat declined to tell the baby what a daddy is, so the baby
is confused. This play corresponded with August when Chloe’s biological
father was calling her on the telephone and saying he finally wanted to
meet her. This was incredibly hard (and very confusing) for Chloe! She
manifested it in play where she could explore what it might mean.

I pay close attention when she attempts to use guilt and fear to
influence my behavior. I believe these are the tools Donna uses to
influence behavior. In play in this instance Chloe showed clear ability
to demonstrate empathy and cooperation, but had to attempt guilt and
fear tactics accompanied by fake empathy (you will die and that's too
bad) first.

This visit was supervised by Sue of Community Family Services.

Chloe with stuffed animals in closet discussing mom’s cancer. When I saw
this configuration of toys, I knew the discussion to be very serious and
I visited with extreme deference to Chloe’s emotional state. In these
instances more than any other, it was not my goal at this time to tell
her how she might feel, but only to hear how she feels, and support
those feelings with love and understanding.

Most recently Chloe volunteered a narrative where she can only walk with
crutches because “I tripped on Stanley.” In this narrative, Stanley is a
dog she tripped on. In reality, Donna transferred Chloe from Jefferson
to Stanley Elementary School. This is a textbook example of
manifestation of real world details in symbolic play. I don’t think
Chloe was conscious of the manifestation at first. I asked if there was
a dog named Grant, and one named Bryant, as those are schools where
Emily and I applied for her to enroll in the 2^nd^ grade, before CPS
placed Chloe in Donna’s temporary care. Chloe played more explicitly at
these suggestions, saying those were wiener dogs, and Howell (another
school we considered a backup) was a pony. Please note that the story
remains consistent, and she brings it up routinely: She’ll find
something that looks like a crutch (such as the golf putter), and begin
limping, explaining, “I tripped on Stanley.” I could then follow up
about the other dogs by name if I chose, and their breed remains
consistent, but the relationship with Stanley is central to the fantasy.
When played out at my mother’s house, my mother’s bedroom becomes the
“princess hospital” where princesses recover from tripping on dogs.
Consistency in creative play is a large clue about inner dialogue.

32. Why are you an advocate of “play therapy?”
==============================================

Self-expression through play can heal emotional wounds. In Chloe’s case
I will take this a bit further: People of unusual creativity and
intellect have the same joy in their smiles and salt in their tears, but
also have the capacity to *define* these things, and the emotional
imperative to do so to remain healthy. Play, art, and music therapy have
helped Chloe tremendously. You can inquire with Ms. Massey at Gilda’s
Club for concurrence.

33. Should all parents/people learn this technique and engage with children in this fashion? Why or why not?
============================================================================================================

Adults with the ability to feel authentically should consider this
thought process. I think many parents do intuitively.

One aspect of any observation is that it's important not to make too
much out of one, single detail. I regret observing Donna make huge deals
out of tiny details over and over again, appearing to fixate. In that
regard I'm glad she doesn't try to play with Chloe as I do. I’m fairly
sure she’d construct the narrative opportunistically rather than letting
it unfold from Chloe’s mind. There's nothing to be gained from a lack of
perspective. Details must be gathered over time when understanding
anyone, child or adult. I look for patterns over time rather than
fixating on a single detail, regardless of how it could be interpreted.
Donna has a pattern of fixating on small details to draw large
conclusions. Emily described this as "Mom believes what she wants to
believe." I believe this pattern is very harmful to anyone's well-being,
especially a child's.

34. Who else do you know that engages with children in this manner?
===================================================================

See \#30.

35. Do you ever relate to Chloe in any other way? Why or why not? 
==================================================================

I have purchased a substantial quantity of supervisor reports that
demonstrate me relating to Chloe as a parent, and as a friend.

36. Name all of the various parenting classes that you have personally attended. Give the dates attended and the name of the classes. 
======================================================================================================================================

-   Emily Murphy instructed by teaching me the following three steps to
    successful parenting: (1) Love (2) Patience (3) Love. She provided
    verbal certification of successful completion of her training. ;)

-   Flying Colors Theraputic Childcare, 1999.

-   Bridges Center of Grieving Children

-   Gilda’s Club

-   Explorer Junior High School

-   NOVA alternative High School, Seattle

I’ve taught many classes and attended many child-orented counselling and
therapy sessions.

Please consider the following letter from my mother:

> “My name is Jeris Ockfen and I am John Dempsey's mother.
>
> In addition, I was a classroom teacher for twenty-nine years. I worked
> with children ages three to ten and also supervised adult classroom
> assistants.
>
> I have a Bachelor of Arts degree in Education and a Master of Arts
> degree in Classroom Teaching. Both degrees are from Pacific Lutheran
> University. While I was teaching kindergarten in the Sumner Schools, I
> was honored by being selected as the district representative in the
> state 1994 ‘Teacher of the Year’ program.
>
> I feel that I know children and also can recognize adults who are
> skilled in working with youngsters.
>
> As a teacher I occasionally had one of my own children visiting my
> classroom for a school day. My two older children sat and read books
> or worked on their own school work--but they ignored the others in the
> classroom.
>
> John was different. I always looked forward to having him in the
> classroom. He fit right in. He seemed to understand what the students
> were learning and he was a big help with them. He also understood the
> boundaries of a classroom. If a child needed direction, John verbally
> steered the student to acceptable behavior. Working with children
> comes naturally to him.
>
> John's step-father also was a teacher. He and I often have often said,
> "John should have been a teacher!"
>
> For our first meeting with Emily and Chloe I saw that John also dealt
> with Chloe in very positive ways. When she was a toddler, John
> understood that level of development. As she grew, he has seen that
> her activities are age-appropriate. He guides her behaviors with
> positive suggestions, (for instance, " would you like an apple or an
> orange for an after-school snack?") John has also supported her
> schoolwork and encouraged her to expand her thinking and learning
> beyond school.
>
> As a preschooler, Chloe herself began referring to John as "daddy". To
> her he is the only "daddy" in her world.
>
> John has not only been Chloe's only daddy, he is a great father to
> her.” –Jeris Ockfen-

37. Who thought or currently thinks that they would benefit from having custody of Chloe financially? What is the current status of that issue?
===============================================================================================================================================

After a meeting at Uncle Howard Dempsey’s in September 2012 we returned
to Darin's house. He pulled out a white board. He wrote \$250,000 and
wrote \$125,000 twice. He asked Emily to confirm her Marines life
insurance was split between Donna and Chloe. Emily confirmed it was.
Darin said, "we would want your survivor benefit to go to household
debt." I agreed. I studied Donna’s finances years earlier and had
serious concerns. Darin said something about the potential for Chloe to
own the house she lived in. I had felt for some time that the large
house without Emily would not and should not house two aging adults and
massive amounts of junk. It was dangerous outside and underutilized.
Donna had financed half a remodel on credit cards. Richard, a man with
many tools, didn't appear to complete the remodel at any pace. It seemed
likely the unsustainable finances would be sustained by money that
belonged to Chloe. This still seems likely today.

Whoever has custody of Chloe will receive a check from the U.S. Treasury
for \$892, probably monthly. The same party will work with professional
trust administrators to spend trust money on Chloe’s behalf, which is
likely to include monthly distributions. Those are the objective facts
about the financial implications of custody. But who thought the most
about it? Based on behavior, I believe Darin Murphy and Kyle Coker acted
in this matter based on financial motives.

The day Emily signed her final will, she said to me, “I want to give you
all the tools you might need to keep Dad from interfering with the plan
for Chloe.” Emily regularly said she saw no relationship between Darin
and Chloe, only “grumpy grandpa”, and worried that Darin would seek
custody of Chloe. On the same day, in the meeting with Joni Irvin, Darin
asserted that he would be the best choice for Chloe.

After Emily’s death, Donna Mairs contacted military life insurance. They
revealed that a change to the account had been made in March, which she
interpreted to be a change in beneficiary. In fact, that is when Emily
and I confirmed that rather than \$250,000, her life insurance was worth
\$400,000, and rather than specifying two beneficiaries, she only listed
Chloe. Emily had believed Darin’s original amount and distribution was
correct, so I asked Emily if she wanted to change the policy to
designate half for Donna, but she only said “consequences”. I
interpreted this to mean she felt angry at Donna for Donna’s opposition
to Emily’s choice that I would raise Chloe. Emily held a great deal of
resentment toward both parents for their ongoing dishonest sabotage of
her adoption plan.

Todd Tuell, probate attorney for the Mairs, received our suggestion of
professional trust management by counter-proposing Commencement Trust
Management. We determined that it is run by Robin, who we determined to
be romantically involved with attorney Michael Howard, whose
relationship with Darin was called “a clear conflict of interest” by Dr.
Natalie Dong. After we ignored the counter-proposal, Darin stopped
attending hearings, and Kyle Coker stopped responding to all email and
telephone communications. Coker’s silence should cast serious doubt on
his statement that he loves Chloe “with all his heart.” Further, his
pleading that he was “swindled” out of Chloe might be telling.

Once Eileen Peterson suggested professional trust management, I agreed
immediately, even though the will specified me as trust manager. My
response was “I would sooner recommend the dog catcher than any member
of their family to manage these funds.”

I earn a strong wage in the software industry. I came to Tacoma unaware
there are substantial financial resources accompanying Chloe. On or
around January 5^th^, 2014, I told Darin that Kyle Coker owed Emily
\$16,000, and adoption was the only way to prevent him from taking
custody of Chloe out of financial motives. (Please realize we all
struggled with the legal dimensions of this throughout this experience.)
Darin said he was not aware of this risk. He may have used it to
persuade Kyle to get involved after Emily’s passing, but I have no
specific information about what went on between them, except that they
were in communication and Darin planned to host Kyle in August for the
purpose of Kyle spending time with Chloe. This visit never occurred (to
my knowledge).

38. How much money will Chloe inherit? Who is responsible for safe guarding that money? Please give me the name of that individual, the address, and phone number. Is there a court order that outlines this individual’s duties? If so, when was it filed and where is that filed? Could you provide me a copy of this order, if any?
======================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

Chloe will inherit about \$405,000, and a monthly payment of \$892 from
the US Treasury (Social Security). Chris Neil, a professional trust
manager, will safeguard these funds. The court order has been prepared
but not signed yet.

39. When is the last time that you saw Chloe unsupervised? 
===========================================================

8:00am (Date and time to be researched).

The last time I was with Chloe without supervision was when I stopped
car at her school, hugged her, told her I love her, and told her to have
a good day learning.

40. Explain, in your own words, the recent supervised visit that you attended with Chloe when the supervisor became very frustrated with you and addressed it in the supervised visitation notes. 
==================================================================================================================================================================================================

In my own words, she lied.

My uncle witnessed some of this alleged assault and has a very different
account than Sarah’s.

The most serious accusation in this report is based on events which I
remember quite differently. When I asked "How many 'i Love yous' and
'how many daddy's?'" she had heard, the supervisor clearly responded
with an affirmative. I said my status as Chloe's dad is disputed, and
Sarah smiled and clearly said "Oh yes it's clear!" She did NOT say I
must stop! So I proceeded to explain why I felt Chloe's feelings deserve
a more central role in the reporting: Because I am the subject of a
smear, because it's been alleged that I have no legitimate relationship
with Chloe or Emily. While I am a passionate speaker, I was in no way
out of control, My ultimate motive was to communicate about, and try to
understand, why statements about Chloe's emotional context are
consistently lacking in Sarah's reports. At some point Sarah did say she
would not discuss details of the case with me, so I moved to safer
ground: Where are you from? What's your favorite song? How's the
weather? I've asked two other supervisors where they're from, and got
two answers in the past. I believe most people would receive this
subject shift as a clear intent to respect boundaries, but Sarah did
not. I want to add finally that her statements opposing discussing where
she's from or her favorite song were accompanied by a smirk. What kind
of verbal assault victim smirks? I finally laughed to myself because
despite my best efforts, I felt alone in the room. Howard Dempsey, owner
of the house and retired career schoolteacher, indicated he had
overheard the conclusion of the alleged verbal assault and considered my
efforts at calm communication to be appropriate, while her responses
were unusual. He describes Sarah as bizarre, cold, and clearly in the
wrong job for her skills and traits.

41. Do you believe that healthy boundaries with Chloe include you sleeping with Chloe? Why or why not? Have you slept with Chloe? If so, when, where, and why? 
===============================================================================================================================================================

Age 2-4, and once when 5: Typically Chloe slept in a smaller bed nearby,
a small mattress I flipped down, but sometimes I needed that mattress at
work. (I frequently work laying down due to back and neck pain.) On
Capitol Hill in Seattle I lived in a small studio apartment. When
necessary, Chloe slept in my bed, a full-size bed, clothed in night
clothes just as I was. This is common family behavior and healthy
re-assurance to a young child, especially when sleeping somewhere other
than their primary bed.

42. Do you believe that healthy boundaries, with Chloe, include her being allowed to run around naked, as alleged when her mother’s care givers were present? Why or why not?
=============================================================================================================================================================================

I do not allow Chloe to run around naked! I ask her to dress when I see
her naked. I have never assigned her chores while naked. I prohibit
running around naked every time I have seen it, and demand she put on
clothes. But she liked to occasionally be IN HER ROOM both partially and
fully unclothed. There may have been times when everybody was tied up
tending Emily when the caregivers saw a naked child streaking across the
15th floor apartment room but it would never have been the rule.

43. Do you believe that healthy boundaries with Chloe include you bathing with Chloe? Why or why not? Have you bathed with Chloe? If so, when, where and why?
=============================================================================================================================================================

When she was 2 and 3, Chloe and routinely took baths with Emily and me.
It was fun. Splash, make silly hats out of suds. I had a big white
bucket that we would fill up and pour on each other’s heads. Chloe liked
to hold her breath. We both liked splashing each other as much as we
could. When she was 2, she asked Emily and me about the difference
between daddy and mommy, and we explained the difference. It all seemed
natural and straightforward, and not erotic whatsoever. Around age 3 I
began using a heavy bubble bath that made the water milky white, and at
age 4 Chloe took her final bubble bath with me. The locations were at
Emily’s apartment, at my house in University District, and once at my
house in Capitol Hill. Nothing seemed strange about this behavior. It
was something she clearly enjoyed for the right reasons. Then at some
point she became more interested in physiology than in suds and
splashing, and I decided it was time to end this fun part of her
childhood.

45. Do you believe that healthy boundaries with Chloe include you allowing Chloe to sit on your lap, in light of the CPS allegations? Why or why not?
=====================================================================================================================================================

The CPS allegations are far-reaching, consistently false or misleading,
and are not the allegations of CPS. They are allegations *relayed* *to*
CPS, which CPS did not substantiate with whatever standard they use to
determine what’s fact and what’s abuse.

However, in light of the hard work produced to sabotage and end my
relationship with Chloe Murphy using the CPS agency, I believe it’s
important not just to avoid improper situations, but to avoid *the
appearance* of improper situations. This is certainly what I did
regarding Emily’s money; as wild accusations mounted, Emily offered me
some life insurance money, but I declined it. The offer was not
improper, nor would acceptance be improper, but *the appearance* of
impropriety can be as dangerous as actual danger. That’s how I treat
boundaries in light of the smears against me as orchestrated through the
CPS agency. Ask Daniel Masler, my neighbor in Seattle who is a child
psychologist and play therapist, about my behavior in the apartment:
When 4 year old Kirara visited my home, I kept the door wide open. When
the stranger Daniel Masler asked to come play with us, he was quite
welcome. We both welcomed Kirara in our home, but always kept the door
wide open. I believe it was not about danger, but about the perception
of danger.

Kids sit on their parents laps to discuss important things, feel secure,
tell family secrets and a host of other reasons. Chloe views me as her
Dad and I believe she is my Daughter. We practiced that for a great many
years. She’s gotten rather big but if she felt comfortable on my knee,
I’d let her sit there. You’re representing her in the cause before the
court. Is there something I don’t know about children and adults and
contact that you would like me to understand about Chloe?

47. Describe the interpersonal physical and emotional abuse displayed by Chloe’s biological family.
===================================================================================================

One thing I want to say before listing all these incidents and details
is: My family doesn’t do this stuff. Why do you think Emily worked so
hard? Chloe’s name on a clover was the only tattoo Emily had.

Abuse of Darin by his mother
----------------------------

Darin was abused by Andrea Mattsen through whipping until he was 8.

Abuse of Mariela (Darin’s 3^rd^ wife)
-------------------------------------

According to accounts that appear in the adoption records for Juan,
Juan’s biological father physically abused Mariela in Mexico, Emily told
me.

Abuse of Darin by Dina (2^nd^ wife)
-----------------------------------

Dina was a pretty classic narcissist controller. Darin recounted
isolation perpetrated by Dina. She separated him from his children, and
destroyed photographs that included Donna. She prevented Darin from
attending the wedding of Sarah and Greg. Emily spoke of strange and
stupid “scrap book” gift from Dina to the daughters that I never really
understood. There was something evil about it that I don’t remember but
the sisters must remember.

Dina stole or tried to steal in excess of \$100,000 from Darin during
their marriage by taking his checks into her account to pay the
mortgage, and then not paying it.

Abuse of Emily by parents
-------------------------

Emily began experiencing severe emotional abuse when Emily told her
parents I would raise Chloe. In very early December, just before I
arrived in Tacoma, Emily’s father and mother began on the same day
telling her she was not competent to make decisions. Though he pledged
full support in late November, Darin now instead insisted I was not a
good pick for Chloe, and Emily was not competent to make her own
decisions. Donna repeated this later in the same day. I assured Emily I
would be there soon. I immediately relocated to my uncle’s. Emily
explained in a Skype call to me how this was exceptionally upsetting and
painful because she did have brain cancer, and felt deeply troubled by
these assertions, which she characterized as abuse, while crying. I told
her I would be there (in Tacoma) soon, and I told her we’d spend a lot
of time together.

When this assertion came from Donna a second time, I came to my Uncle
Howard and said Emily was being abused. That night I found a duplex near
her home where we could move. To protect her emotional health, we went
with Chloe to my sister, Jan Dempsey’s’ home for the weekend.

During the second adoption meeting, Darin vocally and forcefully denied
making this statement to Emily Murphy.

Darin in the car told she’s “being abused”. He could only drive her
around to speak with her, though it made her carsick. He could not enter
the house. I believe he needs arenas where his perceived authority and
ego are validated.

Abuse of Chloe by Donna
-----------------------

### Guilt and Shame

Based on what Chloe said, I believe Donna is now saying something to the
effect of: "You don't want to hurt John by calling him Dad at this
difficult time." Telling her I’m not hurt by being called Dad, and in
fact I think it’s great, gives her an incredible smile. Donna and Darin
both focus a great deal on the alleged feelings of others, saying we
wouldn’t want to hurt others. This easily extends to imagined, fake
feelings of others, as in this case, and is a sinister means to
manipulate a child.

I witnessed Donna shame Chloe in May, 2014 over a minor detail
discrepancy that Chloe could not have known: I said I would call her
teacher but met with her instead. Donna interrogated Chloe about this
discrepancy, even though Chloe had no way to know I had changed the
contact approach, the detail does not matter at all. Chloe was visibly
frightened by this interrogation and allegation that she was lying. I
believe she was expected to feel ashamed for an error she had no
awareness of. Shame is part of a pattern Donna uses to control
juveniles. I believe this tactic has caused substantial harm to
juveniles she has raised.

### Physical

Donna specified a willingness to spank Chloe in her declaration to the
court. I am disturbed by this because Chloe will experience the 5 stages
of grief through every level of her development that will manifest as
both anger and depression. It’s critical to her mental health that anger
from grief NOT be met with hostility! This is a well-known risk in grief
counselling! In Donna’s care these patterns won't be identified as
anything more than misbehavior and Chloe will be punished for it,
probably with spankings, according to their pleading to the court.

I am much more reluctant to use spanking because it easily communicates
that might makes right and fear and pain are available for the
non-complaint. My “swats” are now very rare and always sought to bruise
the ego, not the body. I have swatted Chloe once in 2014.

During a recent visit, Chloe Murphy said Donna Mairs had struck her in
the face.

### Out-of-control Behavior

Donna has shown hostility toward me in front of Chloe in ways Chloe
found extremely distressing. In one instance Chloe cowered behind me
while Donna raged around the house and in the yard, slamming the car
door and screeching.

### Abusive use of Conflict

Chloe describes "being in the middle" as a terrible feeling. I do not
criticize Donna or any other family members in front of Chloe.

### Inappropriate Details and Guidance

On October 31^st^, 2014, Chloe explained that when Donna and Richard
die, Chloe will live with Pat. Pat is Darin’s brother. He wrote to Emily
about adopting Chloe, in a letter that included the distinctly
non-Murphy sentence: “Whatever you choose, I support you.” Emily had
considered Pat and his wife as a future for Chloe when she was much
younger. I know Chloe considers life fragile, and regularly asks who
would take care of her after her current care-givers die. On advice of
many therapists and friends, I had a healthy, helpful answer to this
question: “I’m really strong and healthy. I will probably live a long
time. So you don’t have to worry about losing me.” Donna is not
demonstrating any understanding of the importance of this message,
because Donna has no training in care for a child with Chloe’s needs.
Planning for Chloe is an obligation, but revealing information about
theoreticals like these is harmful to Chloe psychologically. Emily
wanted me to care for Chloe because I am young, active, and live a
healthy lifestyle. Donna and Richard may be in a position where they
need to plan for their own death or incapacitation if Chloe is placed in
their custody permanently. That’s still no excuse for answering her
questions in this manner!

Abuse of Chloe by Darin
-----------------------

See \#24.

Abuse of Chloe by unknown parties 
----------------------------------

Presentation of confusing information about adoption by Uncle Ned, March
2014.

During a recent visit, Chloe Murphy could not identify the source of a
bruise on her arm.

Abuse of Chloe by Ally
----------------------

Chloe was sexually assaulted by Ally twice.

Abuse of Ally
-------------

Documented in other answers.

Abuse of Jenny by Brian
-----------------------

Documented in other answers.

Jenny dated a felon imprisoned for non-consensual sex abuse of a minor
or minors. Donna welcomed this man into her home even when Jenny was not
present, as a dinner guest. This caused me substantial distress with
Chloe in the home.

Abuse by child caregiver
------------------------

The family had hired a caregiver in the 80’s or very early 90’s who the
children said was physically abusive, Darin relayed to me at the time.
She was released.

Consequences of Abuse
---------------------

The severe abuse is psychological. Donna and Darin use guilt and shame
on children and susceptible adults. Guilt and shame are powerful, very
destructive tools. I believe Donna learned these behaviors as a victim
of spousal abuse. In my own training as a volunteer with Flying Colors
therapeutic childcare, a program for socially delayed children operated
by Martin Bullard Ph.D. I was trained specifically to avoid shame as a
control tool. Shame is brutally effective but extremely harmful to
self-esteem of a child, and causes loss of independent initiative.
Excepting Sergeant Emily Murphy, none of Donna's 3 other children have
attained any post-secondary degree in any subject. One does not work
outside the home, and the two others work for low wages in retail
environments.

Donna often seems derailed by guilt and blame feelings toward herself
and others. After spending time with Donna, Chloe repeats complex,
troubling explanations of guilt and shame she claims to feel, and
asserts that I should also feel. She often cries while explaining why
she and others are victims and perpetrators of shame patterns.
Eventually after returning from Donna's care, Chloe escapes these
twisted explanations after crying briefly.

I never understood something I began seeing in summer 2013 when I began
attending Bridges grief therapy with Emily.  Her parents spoke of her
like she was already gone. Allison witnessed this in the last days of
her life.  It went on a long time. I said in therapy many, many times:
"but you are alive now! I will have fun with you now!"

When Emily moved in with me, Donna attacked me at Bridges therapy,
insisting on information about Emily's state and well-being. I
characterize Donna’s attitude that day as one of jealousy toward me and
feeling ashamed about the change that had occurred. I looked at Emily
and said,  "she is right here!  You can speak to her directly! Go ahead
and address your questions directly to Emily." But Donna only screamed
more, then left.

From adoption to medical and legal professionals, members of my family
with advanced degrees in education and business carried on detailed,
specific conversations with Emily, regarding her life and plans, very
consistent over time, well into her hospice care. The ONLY factor was
her ability to find words.  No one but her parents seemed to think she
lacked clarity, not even her friends Bettina, Janette and Allison. I
believe it was just a delusion propagated by Darin through Donna for
purpose of regaining control of the money and the child. It was also
severely abusive to Emily and she deeply resented it. She said she did!
Only when we learned to laugh at the outrageous claims did we regain
some control.

This document relays many other instances of emotional abuse in answers
to many other questions.

Emily on the destruction of her family
--------------------------------------

During both Bridges therapy and Gilda’s Club therapy, the therapists
explained to Emily and me that events like losing a family member tend
to cause families to operate according to the dynamics and principles
*on which the families were founded.* I reflected on this a lot as I
watched the behaviors get more and more erratic and strange. Regardless
of where this family might stand today, it was clearly built on very
destructive dynamics. This may be why Emily said witnessing the
destruction of this once-close family was painful for her but its
implosion was not necessarily a bad thing.

Abuse of me
-----------

On one occasion, in February, Darin and Donna appeared at Bridges. Darin
appeared to try to persuade Donna to accept Emily’s new residence and
choice. This seemed hopeful. But about a month later, Darin appeared
with both wives, Donna and Mariela, and used Bridges to attack me for
“betraying” the family. I knew my loyalty was to Emily. I consider the
basic logic at work that day to be a clear example of how the family
blurs boundaries around autonomy, because they were insisting I had an
obligation to them that overarched my loyalty to Emily, namely to
support Emily except where Darin or Donna disagreed with Emily’s
choices. After the session I asked Mariela how I betrayed anyone. She
said Chloe should be with her or Donna. I said, “It’s ok to have that
opinion,” but then I asked if Emily had betrayed anyone. Mariela said,
“No.” She argued that Emily had given Chloe to me without wisdom or
intention. A lengthy record contradicts this, before and after this
conversation, but this was the delusion Darin worked hard to present.
Darin listened to this conversation, but strangely had nothing to say.
Except during one phone call in September, Darin never spoke one-on-one
with me about his concerns. This is consistent with the thesis that he
knows he is solely a manipulator and does not find success trying his
tactics on me, so he avoids interacting with me. This is consistent with
the behavior of a psychological manipulator.

In a telephone conversation about where Chloe would sleep for the
evening, Donna hung up on me rather than discuss the matter. I called
back and specified I would be over in 15 minutes to get Chloe and return
her to her home. I did so without incident.

In a telephone conversation about Emily’s cellular phone, Darin hung up
on me rather than discuss the matter.

Intervener documents and motions show a clear pattern of abusive,
misleading, and disingenuous statements and behaviors intended to harm
my reputation and compel me to abandon the cause before the court.

48. What is the name of the social worker that asked you to make arrangements for Chloe to be with Donna?
=========================================================================================================

49. Explain, in your own words, how Donna is asking Chloe to choose sides. Please give me specific **dates and times**. 
========================================================================================================================

When speaking with Chloe around me, Donna referred to me as dad until
2014.

2014 is full of examples of Donna pushing Chloe to believe I am not
legitimate family.

I remember three instances where the “Dad” label was discussed with
Chloe. On June 20^th^, at Pierce County Fair, and on October 25^th^ or
so. In the most recent instance, I told Chloe that I noticed she is
calling me, “John.” She said she “didn’t want it to be weird.” I told
her it’s not weird to me, I like it. Her face lit up!

One a day before the third-party custody filing, I picked Chloe up from
school after she had spent the night with Donna. She said Uncle Ned
wanted to adopt her. Emily also got an email from another uncle (Darin’s
brother) and a visit from his wife. The email discussed adopting Chloe,
but the visit just discussed “open adoption” generally. Emily resented
the email. These details show both a family acting to “keep” a child
they considered to be theirs, and *talking about it* with Chloe. Of
course Chloe, Emily, and I spoke together about me raising her after
Emily died. I don’t think it’s the same thing; we had the initial
support of Joyce Robson and Joni Irvin. Once things went haywire with
the smear meetings (2), I sought counsel with therapists who told me to
tell Chloe, “You will be taken care of.” I stopped saying with whom. She
would call me “100% dad” because I could only explain that “I’m 99% dad
now. We’re trying to make it 100%.” Example after example in this
document show I’m the only guy involved who cares about Chloe’s mental
health and has the skill to protect it. Donna never misses a chance to
grind an axe.

Chloe has several times said, "I hate being in the middle." Many times
during the play therapy Chloe has created scenarios which allowed her to
sort out the fact that she is being asked to choose sides. Dates and
times may be almost contiguous and continuous.

Switch from “Dad” to “John” is attempt at alienation from established
identity, one Emily supported since nearly the beginning. Re-program. I
could call her “Donna” but have no intention of pushing an alienation
agenda.

There has been a clear shift in Chloe toward calling me “John” rather
than “Dad.” In three instances, I have said I notice she is calling me
“John.”  I assured her it's ok of she wishes to.  On October 26th she
said she did it because she didn't want it to be weird. I told her I
like when she calls me Dad, and that it's not weird at all to me, and
asked again if she wants to call me “Dad.” She said “yes” and she wished
for me to call her “Sweetie.” For the rest of the visit we used this
language. Closing the conversation I told her I am loyal to her, and she
appeared extremely happy.

I believe the message given to her was that calling me Dad made ME
uncomfortable.  This is consistent with the "we must be thoughtful"
manipulation Donna practices. Addressing it directly by saying I like
when she called me Dad put her greatly at ease and appeared to make her
face light up. How much damage will be done to her before she is wise
enough to see though this sort of manipulation?

A similar interaction occurred at the Piece County Fair. I am very
accommodating. If she wants to call me “John” she may., and clearly
Donna insists that she must.  But I asked on the bumper cars, "do you
want to call me Dad? " and her answer was absolute and enthusiastic. 

First instance of course June 20th.

That's Donna pushing, hammering and chipping away and each time I'd ask
about it she expresses strong desire to proceed with Dad rather than
John. I must stay vigilant to the dirty mind games employed to change
this AGAINST CHLOE’S WISH. I have never saw an indication that she
herself wants you cease calling me John.  I have seen three clear
instances where it's clear she is being pressured and tricked and
manipulated to do so.

Ongoing
-------

Donna has prohibited all adult members of my family, including people
Chloe has known since age 2, from visiting her at supervised visitation.
Donna wishes to destroy the relationships Chloe has with me, but her 4
court hearings have failed. She can, however, destroy the relationships
Chloe has with my Mom, Dad, Step-Mom, Sister, Brother, Half-Brother,
Half-Sister, and many others. We have many photographs of Chloe with
these people. Please stop this immediately by authorizing me to invite
members of my family who Chloe wishes to see! Please!

No adult members.  Recently picked 13 year old. Chloe said the rules.
UNSUPERVISED VISITS are the best way to restore these relationships
which Chloe and my family both seek. Barring that, I continue requesting
the GAL. to authorize members of my family well-known to Chloe to attend
supervised visits. And I specify this consistent effort by Donna as an
attempt to make Chloe take sides. During Emily's hospice, Donna may have
tried to spend time with Chloe once at the apartment.  Clue declined and
Donna said,  "I know I'm not wanted." She seemed to take the rejection
by a six year old child seriously.

My biological family regularly took her to the park, zoo, and mountain,
or just played with her while I cared for Emily. Please stop this clear
pattern of alienation.

It is my view that Donna is fighting for her own identity as a
care-giver, desperately afraid. In this feeling of do-or-die, she
employs every tactic she can imagine to destroy Chloe’s relationship
with me, from her failed court motions to her consistent pattern around
Chloe of attempts at alienation. Donna works hard to destroy my
fatherhood in Chloe’s mind.

In May my father strongly suggested to Darin Murphy that a parenting
plan should be established, saying templates are available. A parenting
plan would include clear language about the inappropriateness of these
remarks and behaviors. To date, no discussion of a voluntary parenting
plan has occurred. But prior to trial, as soon as possible, can the
basic rules of parenting during a conflict please be communicated to
Donna Mairs?

Donna told Chloe a number of things that made Chloe feel dispirited. You
must understand Chloe has articulated to me a long-standing wish to
reside with me. At one point I promised she could speak with the court.
I hope you identified yourself as her representative to the court. Donna
says things like, “You won’t get to talk to the court.” But Chloe is a
witness in the cause before the court! Why does Donna ignore these basic
facts? I believe she does so to take away hope. I believe I represent
hope to Chloe, and Donna needs to take me away, also, in order to
accomplish the indoctrination of the family and church.

I wish Donna would avoid speculative and authoritative statements and
act like a party in a case before a court which has not been resolved.
She needs a coach to sit down with her and tell her what the rules are
regarding a child who is in this situation. She consistently makes poor
judgments about what information should be relayed to Chloe about the
situation.

51. Did Ms. Murphy want to marry you prior to her death? Explain in detail why that did not happen.
===================================================================================================

On a drive in December to our visit our friends Carolee and Jerome
Johnson, Emily asked if I would be there to the end, and I said I would.
In February, I made the following vow to her: “I love you and Chloe. I
am loyal to you and to Chloe. I will never surrender.” I whispered this
vow to her every time I saw her at Darin’s house. Since then I have
repeated this vow or parts of it dozens of times each day. Furthermore,
my words are promises. Please compare to the words of Kyle Coker or
Darin Murphy, or even Donna Mairs, who assured Emily I would stay in
Chloe’s life, and continues to claim this according to the G.A.L., yet
pursued 3 unsuccessful and outrageous court motions to eliminate me from
Chloe’s life.

Yes. We discussed it twice in November. I examined the question
carefully with my sister Jan Dempsey and my long-time friend Walter
Wittel. Both were very concerned that we could not know how Emily would
die. We realized she could easily experience a long, slow death at
dramatic expense in an intensive care environment. We further realized
this could bankrupt us both, in our marital estate. How could I raise
Chloe if that happened? So we agreed on a compromise: I promised a
commitment ceremony primarily for Chloe’s benefit, where both families
would show Chloe the breadth of support she has. This ceremony would
include everything but the legal papers. However, Darin Murphy accused
me of substantial crimes including the intent to sexually abuse Chloe
for the remainder of her childhood. In the same meeting, he expressed
disgust that I did not intend to marry Emily. (Pause and think about the
combination he presents: I’m a molester who didn’t marry his daughter.
Would he be happy if I married his daughter? Would you be happy if a
molester married your daughter?) Could that man walk Emily down an
aisle? It didn’t seem possible for Chloe to experience a healthy
ceremony between the families with dramatic, substantial, excoriating,
irrational hostility coming consistently from Darin Murphy.

Emily mentioned wanting a ring once more, after Darin Murphy and two of
his wives subverted the adoption meeting at Joni Irvin’s office (the
first meeting occurred there). She insisted on going to the bar and
getting drunk. I asked her what a ring would add to the promise I had
made. I persuaded her to leave the alcoholic drink un-finished and come
home, and she did.

Darin Murphy mentioned marriage more often than Emily Murphy ever did.
The hostility and accusations emanating from Darin and eventually Donna
seemed to absolutely rule out a healthy, adult ceremony between the
families.

Understand I made these choices and plans without any understanding that
Chloe has life insurance funds, and without an awareness of the scope of
coverage available to Emily from military medical insurance. I also
considered the fact that she insisted on all methods of artificial life
support. I confirmed this wish with her many times. I studied and
practiced C.P.R. and made a plan for isolating Chloe safe with neighbors
in case Emily had a medical emergency. I was prepared to honor her
wishes.

Her father asked about marriage plans more than Emily did. It annoyed
her when he asked on January 5th. She tried to put the question to bed
but he talked about it again at the second adoption meeting. Think about
that. She was ok with the way things were. She and I worked things out.
She said about her parents more than once,  "I'M THE ONE WITH CANCER!"
So why couldn't they help her by supporting her wishes and choices? I
think it's because there is something very sad and wrong going on with
them. Apparently the lack of marriage blew her father's mind, and even
justified his concerted efforts to subvert her wishes. In the name of
supporting her. Think about that. That's very wrong and very crazy.

His thesis at the second adoption meeting was: he believed I am a long
term child molester of Chloe Murphy. He intended to allow it, except I
failed to Marry Emily and I failed to provide "transparency". My
statements in response at that meeting: "Oh, so child sex abuse is ok in
the context of marriage?" (A sarcastic appraisal of his thesis). Joyce
Robson asked about a ceremony and I explained that we had intended to
have one but it seemed implausible that a father would smile as his
daughter married a molester of his granddaughter. In hindsight it's
clear to me his anger was spiraling out of control and he was doing what
he always does to regain control: get in a meeting and bash everyone
with innuendo and smears like an alpha male from hell. A ceremony seemed
impossible after that day.

52. Since Donna choose a different format to address Chloe’s grief due to the loss of her mother, by employing Dr. Johnson, do you believe that Chloe is misunderstood and her needs are not being met? Explain why or why not.
===============================================================================================================================================================================================================================

Dr. Johnson’s involvement in this custody case is amateurish. Meanwhile,
I have taught Chloe “Big Yellow Taxi”, a beautiful song about loss. Not
all kids resonate with song as a way to understand complicated emotions.
Chloe is incredibly suited to a music and art therapy regime for growth
through grief. So I enrolled her in Grant Elementary for Expressive
Arts. I dutifully brought her to Gilda’s Club for art therapy. I made
sure she never missed Bridges, a program for grieving children *and
care-givers*. The director of Gilda’s Club said she was benefiting from
the therapy. That’s because she’s very artistic and creative. Her
emotions will and must come out in ways that resonate symbolically and
poetically. Dr. Johnson, in falling for the crass histrionic
manipulations of Donna Mairs, does not strike me as that bright,
regardless of her credentials. Why should we think Chloe is getting all
she needs from Dr. Johnson?

Since Emily asked me in March, 2013 to attend the monthly BRIDGES: A
Center for Grieving Children program, I have attended nearly all monthly
programs with Chloe and Emily. On a few occasions even before I resided
in Tacoma, I was the sole party to get them to this program. Donna Mairs
stopped attending BRIDGES regularly in December, 2013. I have never seen
Richard Mairs attend the BRIDGES program. How closely are they attending
to Chloe's needs now and in the future if they do not attend this
critical program for her emotional wellness during this transition?
Don’t you think a fully operational grief therapy program would have to
include therapy and training *for the care-givers* as well as the child?
It is necessary to know and recognize and respond to the 5 stages of
grief—denial, anger, bargaining, depression, and acceptance—because they
will recur throughout Chloe’s life at each successive level of emotional
development! **It is critical the anger caused by grief not be met with
hostility or punishment.** How could Dr. Johnson’s help possibly suffice
when it’s only attended by the child? The care-givers began failing to
meet Chloe’s emotional needs when they walked away from Bridges grief
training and therapy in December, 2013.

During December I attended bridges with Emily and Chloe. I hoped to work
forward on the situation in Bridges. But Donna avoided attendance. Emily
appreciated the opportunity to vent without her parents present. Bridges
gave us a referral to Gilda’s club and gave Emily legal advice: to seek
an attorney who represents her. Donna’s absence from Bridges during this
period is probably a manifestation of her fear of conflict. Whatever the
cause, she failed to represent Chloe’s needs over many months of
necessary therapy and training for Chloe’s parental bereavement. I was
there, however, consistently, and I kept up home for a while that Donna
would show up and necessary conversations could occur. I know now she
avoids conflict. My tone would have been supportive, and I prepared for
each therapy with the hope she would attend.

Are we to believe that Donna, who clearly needs years of intensive
therapy, is the best opportunity for Chloe, who will suffer years of
parental loss grief through each successive period of personality
development? That is a dangerous plan, regardless of outside help.

53. Do you know if Donna plans on placing Chloe with Sarah, her daughter, if she obtains custody of Chloe? Explain in detail why that is a good or bad idea.
============================================================================================================================================================

I have no information about this. I and Emily believed this is a bad
idea.

Sarah is probably high on marijuana while caring for her 3 children.
Based on information from her received through Facebook and based on the
observation of my uncle, Sarah is very actively engaged with Facebook
games while caring for her 3 children. She produces about 5 re-posts
each day, at varied hours per day, including late into the night/early
morning. The most common topic of her re-posts is marijuana.

Sarah’s husband is routinely away in studies. Emily cited this as a
problem with the three children they have, and was very distressed that
Sarah talked about having another child, and saved clothes for another
Child. With Chloe, that would be five children.

It’s my understanding that Sarah has developed a diabetic condition.

Sarah let a child sex offender into her home, and that person harmed
Ally. It’s my understanding Sarah was not aware of the offender’s past,
and rejected him from the home after the crime or crimes occurred. It
still shows poor boundary control and judgment.

Emily would visit Sarah’s apartment to help clean it. She said it was
filthy, showing absence of even basic habits for maintaining a sanitary
home.

Placement of Chloe with Sarah’s family in Pullman would prevent Chloe
regular exposure to both most of my family and most of her biological
family, who reside around Puget Sound. It would also prevent regular
exposure to places like Seattle Science Center, and other
extracurricular science and technology exposures Emily and I highly
value.

Sarah and Greg are extremely overweight. Sarah’s new diabetic condition
has helped reduce her weight somewhat. Emily explained Greg was released
from the Army due to his size. I only yelled at Ally once when in
Tacoma, when she tried telling Chloe that a jelly doughnut was
breakfast. Greg told her it was, so she believed it was. I told them
both, “That kind of ‘breakfast’ will make you crazy, and make you sick!”
Emily always thanked me when I insisted Chloe make healthy food choices
based on evidence-based information.

One reason why I think placing Chloe with Sarah is a bad idea is because
it is apparent that either Donna or Sarah or both have planned this
outcome without being forthright about their intentions. Why would
either or both of them circumvent the investigation of the G.A.L., whose
job it is to determine and fully examine the best options for Chloe?

54. Has Donna been physically abused in the past? If so, by whom?
=================================================================

I have no specific information about physical abuse experienced by Donna
Mairs. Emily called Donna a “punching bag” twice in conversations with
my father. Most recently, when Donna arrived at the apartment, Emily
said to my father, "the punching bag is here." Perhaps Emily’s meaning
was metaphorical, as it’s clear to me Donna was emotionally “pushed
around” by Darin.

I have examples of indications that Donna often feels depressed,
inadequate, self-critical, and guilty. I’ve seen her mentally beat
herself up, act as if she must always be busy, show fear of
confrontation and conflict, and suffer from feelings of perfectionism.
She demonstrates polarized (“black-and-white”) thinking, refuses to
consider facts that aren’t congruent with existing beliefs, lacks
creativity, spontaneity, fun, and play, and feels shameful about her
sexual past. Something terrible has been done to Donna Mairs.

When Emily was hospitalized around January 25^th^, Donna said to me,
“People say your love is better than mine.” I relay this because it
haunts me that such diabolical dialogue goes on in her mind, about what
people are saying, and about some love being better than other love, and
feeling inadequate for loving “wrong”. Love in my view is always right,
and always compatible. People who loved Emily should have been able to
cooperate for her. I find it easier to believe that she has learned a
form of inauthentic love, a confused delusion of love used to victimize
her for many years.

57. Please give me examples of borderline verbal abuse that Richard, Donna’s current spouse, perpetrates against Donna.
=======================================================================================================================

You are asking me to give examples of something Emily said. Emily
described the tone and conversations between Donna and Richard as
“bleak” and “cynical”. When she said that, I asked her what she meant.
She relayed the following incident: She needed something from the
basement. As a disabled person, she could not navigate the steps to the
basement, or hope to maneuver in the junk-lined narrow corridors. She
asked Richard if he could get it. (Something like her microwave or Bose
radio. I don’t remember.) He said, “RIGHT NOW?” In her view, he sounded
like a teenager, not an adult. He sounded inconvenienced by having to
get up from his video game and walk downstairs.

During Jenny's wedding Richard yelled at Kris to hold the rings and not
lose them. I found his tone to be overly-frightening, distressing, and
mean. I put my arm around Kris and asked how he was feeling, and walked
him through the job of carrying the rings in a wedding. Kris has autism.
Taking a harsh tone with him is always useless and I would say, abusive.

I have a more nuanced view of their relationship: Donna nags with
passive aggression, and Richard’s aggression is more overt. According to
personality theory, hostile people get along.

58. Explain why Ms. Murphy did not want Chloe to be raised as a Mormon. 
========================================================================

I have only known one Mormon family well, and they appear to have
characteristics that are distinctly non-Mormon. However, I know a few
things about them that seem linked to church teaching.

Emily knew the structure of the Mormon church to be patriarchal and
essentially anti-woman (or anti-equality). She also felt that the church
was very order – oriented. She knew that quote, “coloring outside the
lines," was not acceptable within the root structure of the church and
its notions of family.

Chloe now says she wants to be “a little different” which does not
surprise me, knowing her. I fear how this impulse would play out under
the structure and severe strictness of the Mormon theology, and
especially under the care of Donna Mairs.

Emily strongly disagreed with Mormon teaching about gays and lesbians,
and strong church opposition to their civil right of marriage. She
mentioned gay Marines who were friends to her in the Marine Corps. Emily
held values about not only sexual minorities but racial minorities that
Donna does not hold. Emily regularly relayed to me instances where Donna
expressed reservations and fears about people who are of African
descent, and I heard Donna do so. Emily felt these views were contrary
to the core values of the Marine Corps, and she did not want Chloe
exposed to them. I understand the racist history of the Mormon church. I
also understand the complexity involved when race and class collude in
oppression. Regardless of my understanding why Donna might show these
patterns, I do not want Chloe exposed to them, either.

Emily opposed Donna’s abstinence methodology of pregnancy prevention. I
believe it’s also the strict policy of the Mormon theology. Emily and I
discussed Chloe’s sex education. Emily said, “I don’t even think it’s
bad if she has a lot of partners. So long as she respects herself!” Her
views were in direct conflict with Mormon views. I do not believe Donna
Mairs shows self-respect in a consistent manner a primary care-giver
needs to model.

Donna is very attached to rules.  She frequently recounts the rules of
all systems, including supervised visitation and therapy we attended. I
believe she finds comfort in believing problems are solved by following
rules, and perhaps caused because rules aren't followed. This is
consistent with my understanding of her theology. It could also explain
the underperformance of her daughters beyond high school, because
post-secondary education frequently entails deconstruction of rule-based
systems. Chloe already strongly shows the impulse to challenge rules. I
predict a very harmful childhood under Donna’s care.

Practical, wise rules are the cornerstone of healthy childhood and
indeed healthy civilization. Still, the ability to question or even
challenge rules and norms is at the heart of useful education and a
young adult's well-being. I doubt Donna could agree, and I know Mormon
authorities oppose this degree of examination of church doctrine.

60. Explain why you stated that you operated largely without Ms. Murphy’s family’s help when you were performing Hospice care for Ms. Murphy.
=============================================================================================================================================

I welcomed people who came to help. Emily’s friends Bettina, Janette,
and Allison came and helped. My own family offered to help, and I
organized them into evening shifts. Darin Murphy offered to help exactly
once, and came to the apartment alone only three times, all briefly.
Once, I had already completed the showerhead replacement he offered to
perform. He worked a five-minute walk from the apartment. He didn't
visit or help with the hospice care. Emily's mother, Donna, showed up on
occasion.

My family understood the importance of asking, “Is there anything I can
do,” and Emily’s family (with the exception of Jenny) didn’t seem to
understand this basic concept. They would arrive without calling ahead,
sneak into the building, bypassing the call box, and behave like “death
tourists.” This is not uncommon in hospice scenarios, but it doesn’t
meet the needs of hospice. Sarah asked to come by and I knew she would
bring a 2 year old child who would pee on the floor wearing nothing
while she played Facebook games. It might be meaningful for her to be
present, but that’s not much help. Only Jenny and to some degree Melissa
took the time to learn how to care for Emily with regard to cleanliness,
food, medication, and hydration. Her mother was little help and often
left her in an agitated state. Her father always seemed to have some
ulterior motive, provided food that made her vomit, and left the garbage
can and refrigerator full of terrible food nobody needed. He thought he
was some kind of authority and essentially would try to interrogate me,
and make bizarre accusations. For example, he read the prescription for
rectal lorazepam and claimed based on it that I was misusing oral
lorazepam! Though corrected, he repeated this false claim in a
declaration, and an attorney for the Mairs repeated it again in court.
Never let the facts get in the way of a good story! Caregiver Mariah
relayed to me that Darin had asked her strange questions about
medications, seeming to seek confirmation that Emily had been
mis-medicated or over-medicated. Mariah explained that he should address
the questions to me, as I was her medication care-giver, but he did not
ask me. Hospice notes indicated that they had high confidence in my
administration of all medication.

I asked Donna to feed Emily a Jell-o that included an important
medication. Donna got side-tracked and failed to complete the feeding.

Hospice is a major medical situation. Some in the family were not
qualified to handle many of the details. Meanwhile, based on so many
indications of devious intent, emotional abuse, and apparent delusion or
paranoia, I was reluctant to trust the intentions or reliability of
others in Emily’s family, most especially her father.

61. What in the family’s abusive psychology that caused this?
=============================================================

My uncle and Father have both described Darin’s technique as “emotional
starvation”, withholding affection and attention so you become starved
for it. Isolation plays a role in the family that I don’t quite
understand yet.

“People say your love is better than mine.” This statement has haunted
me. 

To love someone is to strive to accept them as they are right now. I
imagine how it went between Darin and Donna for so many years. Darin is
a very intelligent person. Donna is a great maker of cookies. I think
she accurately reflects her level of education. I think passion brought
them together, as often happens with teenagers. Perhaps religion and a
sense of obligation kept them together. Eventually 4 children compelled
them to stay together. Did Darin strive to accept Donna as she was? I’ve
come to see Darin as parasitic, using people for his needs. Most
notably, women. When I worked for him at age 22 we’d go to many offices.
He told me, “You have to flirt with all the secretaries, *especially*
the fat ones!” He’s not quite wrong, and he can be very charming.
Perhaps we all know flirting can often be inauthentic, for ulterior
motives. Around sexual need and desire there is authentic love and there
are innumerable counterfeit forms. I’ve come to believe Donna was
gobsmacked by a parasite genius who fed her illusions of affection and
love. It went on for years and years, the addictive illusion that a
superman genius cares. In reality, he pretended. He created the illusion
of feelings, as he always does. This inauthenticity caused her
substantial harm.

I’m accused of everything I think they’re doing. Their love is
inauthentic, as they claim mine to be. They groom girls for sexual
subservience, as they claim I do. They live in isolation from most of
the world, as they accused me of isolating Emily. The accuse me of
seeking financial gain. I accuse them. If loving Emily entails the
ongoing acceptance of her insight and her wishes, and serving those
wishes, then they do not love at all, and I love completely.

She said many times she wished she had their support. They withheld it,
Donna for fear of losing her own sense of identity as a nurturer of
children, some kind of expert parent, better than anyone, especially
better than John Dempsey. And for fear of being alone with her husband
in that big house, facing inevitable painful truths. Darin withheld his
support for money, the dazzling illusion of opportunity, Chloe’s money,
but money he could possibly control for years and years, something a
clever man could find clever uses for. 

What’s love got to do with it?

Hospice intake Darin showed up in heavy fireman apparel, far exceeding
what must be needed for him to perform telephone answering duty. He
demeaned me in front of the nurse and social worker for failing to
inform him adequately. For example, he insisted that he should have been
informed about Emily's seizure of March 23rd. He asserted that his role
as medical POA entitled him to deference as an authority in Emilys
medical care. The social worker told me later that the care giver and
hospice work closely together until Emily becomes unconscious. Darin
asked under what circumstances 911 should be called and was told hospice
would be contacted first in all instances except life threatening
conditions. I think this bothered him, as later he explained that 911 Is
available for even minor matters including helping Emily from the floor.
He then said the transfer we were doing using a secure vertical bedside
bar and a gait belt to pivot to an in room commode was unsafe. I was
assured by hospice it was safe and my training was adequate. But
insisting conditions are unsafe is the primary--o perhaps the
only--tactic Darin uses. To seek control if a situation.

So he insisted, again, his daughter was in danger, but did not arrive to
help her.

63. Did you talk Ms. Murphy into taking guardianship of Chloe?
==============================================================

Absolutely not.

In fact I resisted her request over a number of years. On the day before
Thanksgiving, 2013, I promised to do what she wanted, the opposite of
persuasion. John Kickman, an attorney, said guardianship would “go a
long way” if she were to die before the adoption was completed.

Emily wished her parents supported her decisions. She gave them
opportunities to do so. She wished they would do so. She was
disappointed, annoyed, and angry when they tried on many occasions to
subvert her wishes. She never wavered from her wishes and plans. She
wanted me to raise Chloe since 2012, or perhaps earlier. She talked me
into it. They abused her by insisting she lacked mental wellness
necessary to make decisions about Chloe. They tried to subvert it. But
she was steadfast.

(I remember at the time seeing a troubling contradiction: Emily was
apparently considered able by her parents to live with me and continue
having custody of Chloe Murphy, but at the same time they asserted she
didn’t have the competency to determine Chloe’s *future*. This struck me
as an insult rooted in patriarchy, where a woman’s work is to rear
children, but not to make major choices about their lives. I shared this
view with Joyce Robson, who immediately referred us to Brianne
Kampbell.)

A sequence of events led to my acceptance of Emily's invitation and
request. It really starts around April 2013. In her home I asked if
Darin might be better than Donna for Chloe. Emily said, "Its not fair. I
have a beautiful daughter and I can't watch her grow up." I agreed it
wasn't fair. Emily said she wanted me to raise Chloe. I wasn't sure
about my readiness, and I vastly overestimated the emotional health of
Darin.

Furthermore, guardianship does not imply custody. Donna, Richard, and
Darin made no clear plan for Chloe. They offered Emily no security for
Chloe because they took no action to prevent Kyle Coker from exercising
his legal rights. Early on I believed Kyle Coker owed \$16,000 to Emily
in back support, and would rather claim Chloe than pay up. Donna and
Darin just naively assumed everything would get worked out.  I made no
such assumption. I pledged action to protect Chloe and have maintained
my effort for over a year now. The characters and perceived risks have
changed, but I’m still doing what I promised to do: Stand against all
who would harm Chloe, all who would destroy her relationships with those
who truly love her, and all whose words claim love but deeds show greed
alone.

In Oct 2013 Emily told my half-brother I would raise Chloe, and he said
saying so made her happy.

Emily was persuaded somewhat. So I organized a meeting. Darin, Mariela,
Emily and I met at my Uncle Howard's house. Emily said she did not want
Chloe raised Mormon. I said I wanted Chloe to have more opportunity,
with technology and such. Following this meeting was a "long weekend"
Emily and I spent together. She returned to Tacoma, to her father's, and
told him she had changed her mind again, that Donna was the better
choice. Then she called me and said, “Are you sitting down? I’ve changed
my mind again.” Candace Zygar came up, saying there’s no room at
Darin’s, but Emily said this decision was hers alone. I said I felt sad.
She said, “If you don’t like it, change it. Come to Tacoma and be the
guardian!” I refused and she cried. It was the last time I refused.

I called Darin. He seemed to contradict what Emily said. (Later I would
learn he was fishing for another manipulation tactic against me in this
exchange, but this was before I understood him to be a severe
manipulator.) He yelled, “I’m supporting my daughter. I want her to have
some comfort. What are YOU doing?” Curiously, this statement, probably
intended to scare me away, made me change the course of my life in ways
he did not like at all. I searched my soul. I considered marrying Emily
and adopting Chloe. I called all of my friends and asked their views.
Two in particular, Walter wittel and Jan Dempsey, asked very hard
questions about how effectively I could raise Chloe if Emily’s illness
and care bankrupted our marital estate.

64. During the time that Ms. Murphy changed her will, please list all of the treatment that she was on and all of the names of drugs that she was taking, the amount, and who prescribed them to her. When did Ms. Murphy change her will?
==========================================================================================================================================================================================================================================

Citalopram (Celexa) for depression, prescribed by the V.A. primary care
physician.

Levetiracetam (Keppra) 1500 mg/daily to prevent seizures, prescribed by
a Madigan doctor who specializes in seizure prevention.

Possibly bevacizumab (Avastin) to treat cancer cells, prescribed by her
oncology doctor, Dr. Myslivich.

If she was in chemotherapy treatment at this time it would only manifest
as tiredness for a day after the treatment. I do not believe she had
received chemotherapy on the day before the will was signed, as she
wouldn’t have had adequate energy. I would need Madigan medical records
to confirm this. I believe as executor I may have legal authority to get
them.

66. Please give a time line of when Ms. Murphy and Chloe lived with Emily’s parents.
====================================================================================

67. Please give a time line of when Ms. Murphy and Chloe lived with you.
========================================================================

December 24^th^ 2013, to May 15^th^, 2014.

68. Are you concerned that Donna, and her spouse, will not be able to financially afford to raise Chloe? Why or why not? 
=========================================================================================================================

Can Donna afford not to? I am aware of some details of Donna’s home
finances. Chloe comes with a trust as well as monthly benefits that
assures custody of her is not a financial burden, and is arguably a
fiscal asset.

I do question Donna’s judgement about finance.

Around 2010, Donna and Richard Mairs financed a major home remodel using
credit cards. The remodel was not completed and substantial debt
remained at unpleasant rates. In a meeting in Fall 2013, Darin expressed
concerns that benefits earned by Emily's Marine service intended for
Chloe would instead finance Mairs home debt. The Mairs home is large. It
has housed 6 people. It now houses 3, at considerable expense.

Donna explained at the start of 2014 that the purchase of Richard’s
truck was based on overtime pay, which had since disappeared.

Darin, who knows Donna well, said he did not want to see Chloe’s
survivor benefit go to household debt.

Emily described a large freezer in the basement that was expensive to
operate while freezing little of value. (A catch or kill from Greg
Uruqhart, a sportsman.)

Donna has failed to pay for 6 hours of visitation, and initially refused
to pay an additional \$10 for Halloween visitation. She received
\$100,000 in August from USAA life insurance, and receives monthly
checks designated as money for Chloe.

She’s pursuing a custody case likely to cost a fair chunk of those
funds. Her 3 court motions were vicious, expensive, and unsuccessful.
This money will be gone, the house will suck it away, and Chloe will
sustain the unsustainable mess at her expense.

When Donna received the \$100,000, she withdrew an offer to mediate a
solution, and pursued a legal strategy that nobody but her attorney
appeared to believe could work. My uncle heard Heather Young yelling
into her telephone, “I can’t believe I lost my motion!” Her attorney
might be aware of Donna’s ability to pay, and this might skew her
attorney’s judgment about winnability.

69. Why did a Hospice social worker state that you were no longer able to take care of Chloe? What was that person’s name, contact information, etc.?
=====================================================================================================================================================

“Caregiver collapse”

70. Did you have a nervous breakdown due to exhaustion? When? Why? Where? Who is the professional that stated this? If so, what did you do to address this?
===========================================================================================================================================================

No professional has stated this. I think it’s something Darin Murphy
said once in a declaration. He is not a medical professional. I suffered
“caregiver collapse” according to a social worker for hospice.

To address my condition I sought "respite care" for Emily up to five
days in a professional care facility. I also discussed Emily's POLST,
especially with the nurse managing the case. Full recessitation is not a
service typically provided in hospice care. I had been studying CPR, but
what if Emily had a heart attack while I slept on the floor mattress?
Failing to monitor her heart and breathing becomes unethical as risk of
failures increase. I discussed these issues with the social worker, and
examined a list of full time care facilities where Emily could get the
care she needed. However, Darin intervened to relocate Emily to his
home, and then displayed a POLST at her bedside that specified DNR. He
had signed this form but a physician had not.

A few days after Emily moved, CPS took Chloe from school. Devastated, I
relocated to my half-brother's house. My half-sister spent the night on
the floor beside me and both she and my half-brother walked me around
the neighborhood. My brother took Emily’s car keys. My father brought
protein shakes that assure nutrients. On May 31 I visited the urgent
care facility in Seattle and was prescribed clonazepam. I followed up
with Dr. Tobias Dang who prescribed Lexapro and referred me to see Paul
Vanderzee who engaged in behavioral therapy with me over 3 therapy
sessions. I had one session with another therapist, for a total of 4
sessions. I attended adult therapy at Gilda’s Club and also returned to
the cancer support group where I began this journey last year at this
time. I worked hard to recover, walking, eating right, and talking with
friends, family, and therapists.

71. What are the effects of short term and long term memory with a person that had brain cancer like Ms. Murphy’s? Explain in detail as it applied to Ms. Murphy.
=================================================================================================================================================================

Short-term and longer-term memory deteriorated over time, to the point
where I’d call it moderate. I believe the Mini-Mental Status Exam
provided more specific evaluation of memory loss. Emily Murphy said in
2012 that she wished for me to be Chloe’s dad, and never said anything
different. What memory did she forget? She tried throughout 2013 to
persuade me to move to Tacoma and raise Chloe. Eventually she succeeded.

If Emily’s judgment was impaired, why was it so consistent? If her
memory was impaired, why was it so consistent? Only within the last
month did I notice her opinion shifting occasionally on various things,
then shifting back, but she never wavered about Chloe’s future. Her
position about me raising Chloe was consistent back to 2012.

When her friends visited, she regularly remembered things that happened
in the past, and made jokes from their shared childhood and young
adulthood.

72. How does brain cancer and all of the various drugs and therapies that were employed, affect Ms. Murphy’s decision making abilities at the time when she changed her will? Explain in detail.
================================================================================================================================================================================================

At the time she changed her will, she was taking an anti-depressant and
an anti-seizure medication. Neither impact decision-making (except
positively). Nor did brain cancer impact decision-making. Emily made
sound decisions up until the end of my care for her. At the time she
signed her will, she managed banking, logistics of walking around the
neighborhood, school matters including Chloe’s awards assembly,
decision-making about what treatments she wished to receive and how she
wished to die. She said to me that dying means losing control, and she
did not want any control of her life taken from her. I promised to honor
all of her wishes in that conversation and others.

Emily suffered from a condition called aphasia that was induced by the
brain tumors. Aphasia is an inability to SPEAK, an inability to FIND THE
RIGHT WORDS, not an inability to THINK. This was confirmed to me by Dr.
Natalie Dong, who described Emily as clear-minded in early January when
we met with her. At the time she changed her will, Emily enjoyed complex
television shows featuring court and mystery-oriented plots, and
regularly sang with Chloe and me. Prior to entrance in hospice, she
began experiencing dizziness, but showed no sign of impaired
decision-making. At no time did I believe Emily lacked decision-making
abilities, and so I continued respecting all of her decisions. This is
also exactly what hospice did. I know you keep asking about her
condition when she changed her will, rather than a month prior or a
month after, but I am saying she experienced moderate changes in
physical well-being which did not impair her decision-making abilities
until very near to her death, when she couldn’t really make decisions
because of paralysis, but communicated clearly when awake by blinking
eyes or squeezing her good hand in mine. Her decisions remained
consistent, and I remain committed to honoring them.

75. Explain in detail your style of discipline when it comes to Chloe. Do you believe that your style of discipline is effective? Where did you learn this style of discipline?
===============================================================================================================================================================================

Discipline has many meanings, including structure, punishment, and
encouragement toward worthwhile goals.

One technique I used to enforce structure with Chloe was the
availability of internet in the house. The internet would turn off for
the entire house at 7pm, with her bedtime at 8pm. This enforced order to
school nights.

Another discipline technique I used was the removal of internet, using a
plug that was visible but out of Chloe’s reach. I explained to Chloe
that the “no no game,” a form of obstructionism I believe she learned
and continues to learn from Donna Mairs, would result in immediate
unplugging of the internet. There was no double-standard at work with
this technique, because the plug turned off internet for everyone. Chloe
would get dramatic, saying she’s terribly bored, and I would explain
there are so many activities she could engage in, from reading to
playing ukulele to drawing to playing badminton with me. I strongly
believe in active vs. passive amusement, and taught her the difference.
I saw a pattern where she would become belligerent when exposed to too
much passive amusement, and I took steps to control her exposure to it.
I insisted she understand there are many amusements available, even with
the internet off, and she couldn’t rationally claim to be deprived or
totally without opportunity for amusement. It just required a little
intentional effort. Usually she would engage in something eventually and
have fun with it for a while. Passive amusement is addictive and should
be treated as such.

When Chloe was younger, I gave her swats. These only occurred when she
engaged in behavior that was dangerous, and was already communicated to
her to be dangerous.

I don’t know where I learned these things. I have some exposure to
educational environments, and remember promising myself as a young
person that when I’m an adult I would remember what it’s like to be a
child. I believe this translated into a commitment to fairness,
openness, listening, and supportiveness toward young people.

One of the reasons I consider both Darin and Donna to be harmful to
children is because they criticize my interpersonal techniques with
Chloe, while practicing harmful techniques themselves. Darin has argued
that my affection and support for Chloe is actually a devious, dangerous
relationship of harm, while he himself engages very little with Chloe,
and readily spanks or threatens to spank her. Donna has argued that I am
simply child-like, irrelevant to Chloe’s actual needs, and unable to
comprehend what parenthood entails. Later Donna said during therapy that
I am actually more strict than she had believed, and that’s correct: I
allow broad exploration within safe and healthy boundaries, and I
strictly prohibit activity outside those boundaries.

Chloe needs an enlightened form of discipline, which understands her
incredible intelligence, creativity, and desire to explore. She also
needs a care-giver attuned to her unique needs as a child who has lost
her mother. I suppose I understand some of this because I am
intelligent, creative, and adventuresome. Being “different” as a child
is frustrating and often unfair, regardless of how or why you’re
different.

I want Chloe to have a normal childhood in which she is expected to
perform to her potential, explore according to her interests, and
experience positive reinforcement attuned to her needs.

From a very young age, Chloe has appreciated when I explained the rules
and boundaries to her. For example, during Darin’s wedding in his home,
I explained that lemonade has a lot of sugar in it, so we aren’t
bringing any into the livingroom, because any spill on the carpet would
attract ants, a problem in that house. To my surprise, Chloe hugged me,
as she often did when I explained *why* various prohibitions to behavior
exist.

Over the years I’ve employed these techniques of healthy discipline:

Give choices / suggest desirable alternatives, ignore misbehavior, find
age-appropriate activities (where most of her impulses are acceptable
and encouraged), confidently assert positive authority to gain
cooperation, identify emotional nuances (stay attuned to how she feels),
listen, respond with honesty, including emotional honesty, while using
language she can understand, be loyal (so she understands the unpleasant
moments and the fun times are all part of the same relationship in which
I show loyalty to her, and she has consistently shown it to me), respect
her as an individual with wishes and unique characteristics.

76. Why did you keep the proposed adoption a secret from Ms. Murphy’s family? 
==============================================================================

I did not. I advised Darin of my intent to adopt Chloe in San Francisco
in late November with Mariela, Melissa, and Emily in the room. I
repeated my intent to Darin again in early January. Emily informed Donna
in early December. In response, both Darin and Donna attacked Emily.
Darin claimed I was unqualified, and said Emily lacked the competence to
make such a decision. Donna claimed Emily to be incompetent later that
same day.

During a family trip to Pullman, Emily said to Donna and Richard that I
didn't want Donna to raise Chloe because Donna lacked financial
resources. When I saw Donna again, she said it would take time for her
and especially Richard to forgive me. Donna said, "we will fight!" And I
said Chloe is blessed with three great options. Donna asked, "three?"
And I said, "you, Darin, and me." Donna said, "you are a child." "I am
an adult." "You act like a child and that's why Chloe likes you." That's
when I knew my role and authority as Chloe's Dad would not be respected
in Donna’s home. I cited this statement during the 2^nd^ adoption
meeting.

During a later discussion on the same topic which occurred in January,
before the first adoption meeting, Emily relayed to me that Donna felt I
was too old to raise the child. Emily and I had a laugh about that.

So where is the “secret?” Is the secret that we actually filed the
papers? Is the secret that we hired an attorney to represent us? I think
the secret was that Emily made choices her parents disagreed with, and
Emily stuck to those choices despite her parents growing harassment.
Donna saying I was too old, when I exercise regularly and am ten years
younger than she is, gave us a good laugh. For a while we laughed well
at the crazy stuff her parents kept saying. That was a breakthrough for
dealing with them. I believe they are willing to say anything they think
will manipulate you to do what they want. I remember pretending I had no
teeth and couldn’t walk, cuz I’m old. Did Donna seriously expect these
strange claims to influence Emily? Emily and I shared a world of
authentic truth. Building that world together made us immune to the
constant delusional crazy talk of her parents.

I was not aware of any life insurance funds at that point, but had
information about the household financial position that caused me
concern. I shared this view with Emily, and she shared it with Donna. At
that time I naively believed Darin’s home was healthier and his
financial position more secure, and at that time I attempted (ONCE, as I
explained to Darin) to persuade Emily to choose Darin rather than Donna
for Chloe’s future. Donna said in the kitchen, “We will fight!” to which
I said, “We will all be needed to help Chloe.” Donna agreed. I said,
“Chloe has three good options,” to which Donna responded, “Three?” I
realized she had not considered my growing willingness to accept Emily’s
long-standing request. I said, “You, Darin, and me.” Donna was
indignant, and explained, “You? You are a *child*.” I said, “I am an
adult.” She responded, “You act like a child, and that’s why Chloe likes
you.” This interaction made it clear to me that Donna did not regard me
as a competent care-giver or father figure, and that my role and
authority would not be respected in her home. I recounted this incident
and conclusion during the second adoption meeting. But the thing that
distressed me most was Donna’s statement that “We will fight!” Fight
who? Me? Emily? *Chloe?* In hindsight, we know the answer is: Yes, to
all three. It became a subject I would not bring up, because I needed to
protect these vulnerable people. But it never was a secret to anyone.

I wrote some reasons why I thought Chloe could do better with Darin and
especially Mariela. I read tHis argument to emily, and Chloe asked to
read it, so we let her read a simplified version by candlelight with us.
Chloe felt special, saying, "you wrote all those words about me?" Ha ha
funny in hindsight.

77. Have you called the police twice telling them that Donna is kidnapping Chloe? Please provide the police reports. 
=====================================================================================================================

No, I did not.

To kidnap is to take illegally and by force. This is not a word I’ve
used or events I ever believe took place. I called police twice with
regard to the custody of Chloe. I made the first call when darkness was
approaching and Chloe had not been returned home from school. Donna had
told me she would bring Chloe home right after school, which ended three
hours prior. Donna did not answer her cellular or home phone. I called
my sister Jan to ask what to do. She strongly suggested I call the
police. Emily agreed with this course of action. When the police
arrived, Emily placed the report. That report is a matter of record.

According to Chloe, upon seeing the police, Donna said, “I might get
arrested because I kept you out too long.” When the police located Chloe
they had a discussion with Donna about custodial interference and they
returned Chloe to our home. Police described the incident as custodial
interference. They strongly suggested we create a parenting plan.

The second call to police was to diffuse and mediate a conflict
occurring in Donna’s home and yard. I described this incident in the
previous intake, and reproduce it here. After Donna understood Chloe was
in my custody, she asked me to call the police back to cancel the call,
and I did.

78. Give me a clear and detailed time line of where Chloe has lived since she first met you and how often that you had contact with her during that time. 
==========================================================================================================================================================

Chloe was a little bitty baby when I first met her and she lived
basically with her mother and I contacted them many many, many times and
she spent a great deal of time with me and my family including lots of
camping trips and wonderful family dinners and huge holiday gatherings.
There was rarely a period of any length when we were not together.

\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_*GREEN
LINE*\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_\_

Skeptical of Donna and Richard ability to nurture a highly intelligent
and creative child.

"When I first got to grandmas I had nightmares. When I am old enough to
choose where I live I will live with you in Seattle."

Story In sand sculptures: "the queen died and the castle fell on the
king and the princess."

"You should get a job like Daniel (a child play psychotherapist) so you
can help other kids. "

Donnas kids. Poor to medioce outcomes. My family: Good outcomes.
Represent Emily. .. why she chose after years of consideration

Represent Chloe... what she demonstrate emotional and conceptual
Independence and initiative in a supportive safe setting

Vs. Failure punished.

Chloe has a strong, healthy parental bond with me. study the visit
reports.

we engage in creative play that far exceeds most children in complexity.
She and I are unusually intelligent and unusually creative.

She's going to see Joni Irvins notes... that's where the smear began and
seeing its embryonic form in Jonis notes taken the day after the super
bowl would fascinate me. Darin wanted the Helpless Brain Injury Daughter
In Distress angle to work. I think he also began claiming there that I
am a pedophile, due to the way Joni responded to something I said about
my volunteer work with children.

Oh here's Emily: http://soot2.livejournal.com/1459.html ... as if she
ever doubted.

Chloe does try to climb on me, and I prevent her from doing so. There
are many documented instances of this delicate dance to avoid
"prohibited" contacts in past reports and in this one. I do ask us to
step back and acknowledge that we are talking about a child who lost her
mother 5 months ago. Since age 2, Chloe and I engaged in active play,
including dance. Emily, Chloe and I enjoyed visiting Festival of Dance
Improvisation (SFADI) in Capitol Hill, Seattle each Sunday, where we and
other families developed movement awareness and trust in a bright studio
with a mirror wall. (I have been a member of this dance group for eleven
years.) It is clearly absolutely foreign and frightening to Chloe that
upon her mother's death, her interaction with me is heavily regulated
and limited. She's accustumed to gymnastic activities with me. I've done
my best to comply with CFS guidelines about contact, but my primary goal
has been to meet Chloe's emotional need for reassurance in this
difficult period. It's telling that this report contains a high number
of reported violations of contact policy, all of which begin with Chloe
approaching me. She clearly enjoys dancing and derives comfort and joy
from the experience. This visit was not unusual in this respect. The
only change is that Sarah chose to pile on every perceived violation of
the policy. (Which only explicitly applies to lap-sitting.)

Ally tried explaining to Chloe that she ate a jelly doughnut flew
breakfast. She said her father Greg had approved of the meal. I said
sternly to them both that pure sugar is not a healthy meal, that it will
make you crazy and it will make you sick. Later I told Emily and she
responded that Greg weighs 400 pounds and had to leave the army due to
his weight. Emily frequently thanked me for teaching Chloe about healthy
food and insisting she eat appropriate, healthy food, and understand the
rule of treats.

Emily told me in March, just before the final adoption meeting, that she
wanted to give me everything I might need to keep Chloe away from Darin.
She said that she believed he could use executor status and financial
power of attorney to stop her plan for chloe. I agreed to take these
jobs.

In Mexico Brian and Jenny stayed in a tall hotel by the beach. With
Darin and me present, Brian became verbally abusive toward Jenny in the
apartment. He blamed her for something in a loud and clearly intoxicated
manner. We left the apartment. Soon after, Darin told me he had
instructed Brian to consume no more alcohol on the trip. He said that
there would be more action if Darin learned of any further abuse taking
place, including verbal or emotional abuse of his daughter.

And remember,please, why Emily moved out: both her mother and her father
began saying to her that she lacked the competence to make decisions.
She told this to bettina and bettina specified this to me months later. 
Bettina ultimately declared against me and omitted this detail she had
previously thought critical: that her friend was quite competent and
that Emily's parents had begin attacking her. Emily said many times in
tears how painful it was to be berated by her mother,  told she lacked
the decision making skill to choose for herself and for chloe. I had
reasons to believe that Donna would fight, and would abuse Emily
further. PLease imagine having brain cancer and experiencing regular
assertions that you lack decision making skill and authority. Please
find a single medical our legal professional who shared this view. You
cannot. It was the sOund of Darin and Donna feeling like they are losing
control.  Not of Emily!  Of Chloe and Chloe's money. It was abuse rooted
in the sickest of motives.

http://soot2.livejournal.com/1459.html

Another reason I said "play therapy" is... Donna.

Emily thanked me when I showed Chloe how to eat healthy food.

rcr has logs of chloe visits.

Vicky Finlay, guidance counselor, said she saw improvements in Chloe
beginning at the start of 2014, which is when I began caring for Chloe
nearly full-time.

i also believe argument from authority and an authority-based Asch\
effect drove his family members to join his crusade against me in\
civil court. Surely we must stand against the obvious child molester.\
It'a an appeal to a higher purpose, after all.\
\
<http://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Psychological_manipulation#Vulnerabilities_exploited_by_manipulators>

I've perhaps gone on too long about Darin's close correspondence with\
the characteristics of psychological manipulators. I leave followup\
here regarding Donna's profile as an exercise to the reader, but I\
hope any choice to leave Chloe in Donna's care speaks to the apparent\
presence of each of these characteristics, and why it's ok to ignore\
them in a primary care-giver:

think about that for a moment. the 10th ranking member of the tacoma\
fire department can't or won't explain why emily is unsafe in her\
apartment, where hospice assured me everything met her needs. the same\
man couldn't articulate a genuine reason why he needed emily's\
cellular telephone. no, it's just argument from authority, over and\
over again. as a technical writer and a rational person with some\
experience detecting irrational arguments, i was unswayed, and these\
interactions wit him led me to conclude he was unreliable and\
unhelpful. i said so in the 2nd adoption meeting, calling him "not\
necessarily hostile, but erratic."

The assertion that Emily was unsafe in our home began at the first
adoption meeting, before the meeting. Later, when she received her death
sentence, Donna thanked me for my help but insisted Emily was unsafe. I
explained she d safer with me than at donnas home. Darin repeated that
the elevator was inadequate.  I asked him o affirm Emily had left and
returned to the building in the elevator the previousday and he
responded aggressively that "I won't argue about this with you John,! "
clearly that's true. He just repeated the claim. He didn't make any
sound arguments. The assertion that there’s danger is a national anthem
in this family. It’s how they manipulate people and situations.

I received gait belt usage instruction from a state-certified first aid
instructor, and additional tips from bettina,  a former c.n.a.

So Emily experienced severe psychological abuse in response to her
stated wish and plan for Chloe. I reported the abuse to my sister and my
uncle. Where was the secrecy? Why would I closely coordinate with the
people who did this to her?\
\
Donna and Darin is that they are only reactive. They only respond to the
actions of others. Rarely do they take their own initiative. Eventually
I became more comfortable knowing dirty tricks were likely, but only as
responses to my activities, not as pro-active behavior.

Emily told Donna about Emily's plan in January, 2014. Donna claimed I\
was too old to raise Chloe.\
\
I think what you're really being told regarding "secret" is this: We\
wished to do something Emily's parents disagreed with. It seems to be\
a family expectation that you do what they want you to do. If you\
disagree, you are sort of obligated to keep talking until they are\
persuaded. Emily acting independently was, in their view, acting\
secretly. But what kind of secret has at least 3 clear disclosures?\
Emily said many times, "I am 32 years old. I had a career and earned a\
pension." She is their child, but she was not a child, in any sense.\
This was a central point she understood well, which she often\
attributed to 8 years in the Marine Corps, where she said she learned\
about the "real world". I sought to empathize with the incredible pain\
of losing one's child, but at some point I stopped believing I was\
seeing straightforward grief and fear. The behavior was too extreme\
and too complex to be a normal, spontaneous grief response to pending\
loss. It was learned behavior that cast a complex and very dark shadow\
on human freedom and independence. It is an incredibly dangerous\
threat to Chloe's well-being during childhood.

Emily told me she wanted Chloe and me to be the last people she saw. I
relayed this to the hospice nurse and social worker.

Chloe has always appreciated explanations. From a young age, I would
explain why a rule is in place, and she would spontaneously hug me.

Throughout the summer I took Emily and Chloe to the wave pool. Emily
asked me many times to move to tacoma. I didn't think tacoma was right
for me.

Based on information shared with me by Donna and Emily in 2011, I
believe Donna and Richard Mairs have a negative net worth. I,
petitioner, have a net worth exceeding \$160,000.

Outside Donna's home, a pathway lined by dangerous refuse and rusted
metal is used daily to pass to and from the back door to the front of
the house. Significant falling danger places children and adults at risk
daily. This dangerous condition has persisted since at least 2010.

Sarah exposed her daughter Ally to a sex offender who targets children.
This man sexually assaulted Ally. Later, in Donna's home, Ally sexually
assaulted Chloe at least twice, in the bath and the attic, according to
Emily. I am not aware of any action taken by Donna Mairs to prevent the
sexual attacks in her home.

Bettina said her dad said that it was interesting Darin was finally
taking an interest in his children.

Nobody has said you have contacted them. I bet you heard from Joy
Laydbak. If thatís right, you will learn eventually of her outrageous
pattern of lying to CPS.

Based on Chloe's insurance, social security, and survivorship benefits,
how could the mairs afford Not to raise her?

Deidre is licensed and met Emily

I remember wondering at the time why she didn't come see me. When
someone I care about is sick, that's what I do. That's what I did. Mel
didn't share my core values.

After her mother visited, she cried, and said, “It’s so exhausting!”

This may have disinclined Emily to change the beneficiary information
set in 2009.

Music and art therapy replace play therapy as a child grows and seeks
deeper answers.

Five years ago Emily initiated a conversation with my father that played
out over many meetings and years to follow,  the central question she
had was: why did some people attend college while others do not?

Hospice closely monitors my medical treatment of Emily, and has
expressed high confidence that all medication has been used properly. I
follow nurse instructions explicitly, and take and post detailed usage
notes. Darin incorrectly claims lorazipam is not used for the treatment
of nausea. The nurse clearly specified it for this use. I keep a good,
correct, exemplary log of medication provided to Emily, and have been
commended consistently on my documentation and decisionmaking. The
factors of medicating a hospice patient are often complex, but I have
successfully administered most medication despite challenges.

Mariela told me she accepts sexual relations outside the marriage so
long as she remains the central woman in Darin’s life.

In dshs is stuff I know about Darin

choosing sides:

she now consistently calls me John, and chloe typically does so for a
few minutes upon each meeting.

if andrea saw these various details, ranging from questionable to
horrible, why did she not file a declaration in the custody case?

In DSHS document, someone describing themself as “foo” said “worried
john will marry and steal”. Oh this is crazy Barbara I think.

Whatever Emily wanted was what I did. This included preparing to
relocate her once during an argument we had. But the next morning she
said: “I don’t always communicate well. I’m not moving. It’s time to be
strong. It’s time to have faith.”

She said to me early on: “Dying includes a big loss of control. I don’t
want to lose control to anyone. I don’t want to lose my independence,
and the right to make my own choices.” I promised I would honor her
wishes, no matter what they were, if I could. This entailed learning
CPR, keeping Chloe in the house, showing her her military ID when she
wished to see it, and sincerely responding to all statements about
wishing to “go outside” or “get going” or “get out of here”.

The hospice social worker regularly interviewed Emily about her wishes,
and can confirm she was consistent in wanting me to adopt Chloe, and
wanting to reside with me and Chloe at the apartment “as long as
possible”.

2013 High end bed

Brian kissed Chloe loudly on the cheek during a transfer of Chloe from
Jenny and Brian to me that took place in Seattle's sodo neighborhood. I
told Brian he must not kiss Chloe again.

The most serious allegations in this report are based on false
statements. I don't know if that's intentional. There is some context
here.

Sarah's three previous reports were mediocre. Previously, she missed
important details about Chloe's behavior and indications of Chloe's
feelings, yet she included many details that just didn't matter. While
the other three supervisors described Chloe's demeaner upon first seeing
me ("greeted with hugs and smiles"), Sarah omitted key statements and
clues from Chloe indicating or suggesting emotional state.

For example, I only said "I love you" without prompting once in this
visit. Chloe initiated "I love you" the remaining times, to which I
responded in kind. Sarah documented these interactions incorrectly as
flowing solely from me. She did not document that Chloe initiated most
of the hugs, but misattributed them to me. I'm convinced she doesn't
"see" Chloe in a critical sense. She's too focused on me for some reason
I don't understand.

I knew the three other supervisors I'd worked with did a better job, so
eventually I began expressing a preference that Sarah not be assigned.
Her supervisor eventually asked me why I felt this way. I believe my
criticisms may have been shared with Sarah, because she arrived at this
visit with a note pad for the first time, and for the first time she
wrote a thorough report. However, in addition to false details, this
report fails in the same way as the others: Chloe's indications of
feelings are still not as apparent to Sarah as they are to the other
three supervisors.

The claim denoted by Footnote 5 is false, I did not, and do not, add any
information beyond what Chloe says about her future plans. The quotation
is incorrect. Chloe said she wanted to live in the same house, and I
affirmed I would like that, too. I did not add "the same house"; it was
in her original statement. I also strongly support her claims of
independence, and her wishes for her adulthood. I have never
suggested--not in all my life--what she might do when she's an adult,
except attend college and establish a career. But when she asserts that
freedom can be hers at a certain age, I hear a child longing for her
choices to be in her control, and philosophically I have a tough time
failing to validate that thinking.

The claim denoted by Footnote 7 is absolutely false. I never made this
statement. I never said "I'll get you back." We were discussing how much
I love Chloe, and I said, "You bet I love you. I keep coming back \[to
see you\]!" I would not harm Chloe with a statement like the one
attributed to me. I encourage Sarah to sit much closer to us. Most of
her livingroom observations were made from across the livingroom and
diningroom, a distance exceeding 30 feet.

The sand doesn't turn to mud. It remains sandy. It was my understanding
that the goal was not to require a change of clothes, and a change of
clothes was not required. I don't question the authority of CFS to
conclude visits based on violations of plans or policy, but is there a
line of common sense somewhere?

Paula Everdell, Howard Dempsey, and Jeris Ockfen are distinguished
career educators who have attended a visit while Sarah supervised. They
all have misgivings about the nature of communication mandated under CFS
rules, where many of the fundamentals of parent-child interaction are
precluded by an almost obsessive list of prohibited behaviors. Touch,
only as an example, is a critical part of effective parent – child
communication. Sarah's interpretation of the rules appears to prohibit
an entire arena of effective interpersonal skills. I understand and
accept this as the nature of the situation, and I engage in a delicate
dance to comply with these rules while providing Chloe with the
reassurance she clearly seeks from me through dance and play.

I intend to be more explicit with Chloe about the full scope of the
rules she's subject to. I don't imagine it will be hard to meet the
guidelines as stated in this visit report. I do ask you to find some
perspective: A child wants to dance with me and dream with me about a
future much like her past, where we associate freely in activities we
both enjoy. And the child in question needs hope and affection to a
degree very few children ever feel.

I've learned the CPS investigation has closed. I understood this to be
the reason why supervision was required. I hope that question could be
revisited soon. Emily taught me her parenting formula: (1) Love (2)
Patience (3) Love. I am patient but am also sure I will cry my eyes out
the next time Chloe and I walk to the park by ourselves again.

=================================

Calls to cps are exempt from slander claims, as are declarations exempt
from libel claims. So a meeting with Joni... probably exempt too.

Anyway... id like to meet with Tracy first.

Visit was solid gold. Except when Chloe sees Emily on the tablet she
always zooms in on her eyes and wants to make her big big big. "But We
should be together." Lots more lists of what we will do as soon as she
is old enough to choose where she lives. I told her to keep a list for
her attorney tracy.

New theory: Darin quit when he lost control of the money.

Always preface striking statements with an awareness they are tough
words . Concerns

diabetic, poor diet, tired. And where is Richard?

look at the outcomes for donna's children - paralysis, an inability to
make decisions and be confident

Chloe's grandmother's husband engages in dialogue with Donna that Emily
described as "borderline abuse". In my appraisal, he is a "man-child"
who is typically playing a video game while watching t.v. in his
recliner.

Chloe's grandmother is abusive. During a conflict about which car Chloe
should ride in for 10 minutes to the same destination, Grandmother
engaged in screaming and abusive speech in front of Chloe, who cowered
behind me. endless use of guilt and abusive use of conflict. each time
she would return from grandmother's, I would be hit with guilt and shame
tactics, but I would insist neither Chloe nor I had done anything wrong,
so I don't feel guilty or ashamed. Chloe would eventually cry, and after
that the guilt and same tactics would not re-appear until her next visit
to Donna's. "secret" conversations with a 6 year old.

Every statement Chloe attributed to grandmother during our first
court-ordered visit characterized abusive use of conflict: "Grandma says
I can't see you and can't see anyone in your family, not even Epona."
"G7randma says you weren't mom's partner."

"Why won't you give back mom's phone? There's someone on it who has a
horse I can ride instead of thinking about mom's death." This is grandma
telling a 6 year old child whose mother just died that she can't ride a
pony because John won't return Emily's telephone. "I can't go to Gilda's
Club. Not even Camp Sparkle."

Chloe's mother had a dream the dream is that chloe have a life outside
the family, because the family has serious patterns of emotional abuse
rooted in darin and donna, reinforced and justified by their mormon
theology, but also deeply reinforced by Darin's abusive upbringing at
the hands of Andrea Mattsen, who abused him severely until he was
removed from her care. Emily described her father as "really screwed up"
and described her mother as "a punching bag" we have evidence of Emily's
competency that we have not introduced in court she worked with 4
attorneys trying to accomplish the dream

I am completely open to investigation and study. All members of my
family are happy to meet with you. Many are distinguished primary and
secondary school educators. Most have observed me with Emily and Chloe
routinely over 6 years of time. All data on my computer archives is
available to disclose. However, as a data professional, the task is
complicated and will require unusually advanced planning as we ll as
exploration of my legal risk to NDA violation. I can prepare a private
viewing of all video and images of Chloe and Emily in my possession.

These mental health professionals have exposure to Chloe and awareness
of her relationship with me: (updated list is in sent email)

Emily felt both Donna and I are essential parts of Chloe's happiness. My
position will keep Donna, but Donna seeks to remove me, contrary to
Emily's evaluation.

We call it The Choreography of Paranoia.

I've attached a photograph of Chloe with me in the water, and one of her
in my lap. So many to choose from! Imagine how confusing this is for
Chloe, and how clearly these changes empower Donna's documented campaign
of parental alienation. Not that there's much we can do about it, as for
now Chloe is in Donna's custody. But at very least I hope we can call
this all what it is.

I can convince Chloe it's Fall and splashing around outside isn't going
to work anymore. She craves swimming with me indoors, too. But that's
not the point. I'm the guy who taught her how to swim, whose lap she's
sat in since her 2nd birthday. Are there alternatives to crushing the
comforting ties she has left from those early days? I bet you must also
be dealing with Donna's pattern of badgering, blaming, and screwing up.

Hypothesis: Donna is playing cheap by trying to use the few tons of
hand-me-downs that Epona outgrew. Hypothesis: Donna is gaming the system
by trying to “set John up.”

Observation: “Maternal Grandmother stated she had requested that
Christine remove me from the case” and I wonder if this was done through
the court which ordered the visitation with supervision or is this, once
again, ex parte? Did Charlotte know she was persona non grata. There is
still a measurable effect of such interference in that any party to an
on-going process is impacted by any part of the interaction. And, while
I appreciate the heads up on Donna and her paranoia and willingness to
game the system, I wonder how one party properly objects to the process
and participants in the supervised visitation. Apparently Christine
Hanson chose not to be moved by Donna’s pleas and protestations but
there are larger issues here.

Observation: “Chloe asked to sit on Mr. Dempsey’s lap” is an indication
of Chloe’s need to sit on her Dad’s lap. This is the same problem in
both the geography of communication and in the non-verbal dimension as
well as it impacts the volume at which the strictly verbal interaction
happens. All communication is at least three levels simultaneously.
First there is the geography within which it happens and then there are
the plethora of non-verbal cues surrounding the interaction and finally
somebody opens their mouth. One of the absolutely best indications of “
distance” is when a kid sits on the lap of a cherished adult. I am
concerned that the underlying efforts to extinguish the kid’s need for
the intimacy satisfied by sitting on laps is being extinguished by the
paranoia of adults who are packing a huge load of their own issues
stemming from their own childhood betrayals. Very bad situation when the
physical is excluded from the process. The physical dimension was one of
the key clues to interaction for fully armed rookies studying
communication so nobody got shot was what they see. I taught
communication for a half century and on many levels and always wonder
what definition precludes elements from a process.

Observation: Christine Hanson, by prohibiting “water activities,” is
allowing Donna, the maternal grandmother, to game the system by either
being incompetent or by deliberate manipulation of the clothing. BTW
clothing choices, whether made by a kid or by an adult, are part of the
non-verbal communication process. Like laps, water and playing are part
of any healthy communication process. Remember that communication has
elements of place (geography) and both non-verbalized and verbal
elements. If I didn’t believe the beach to be an important part of the
experience I would have lived raising kids in a much different way. I
was raised at Crescent Beach on the Straits and spent happy hours both
wet and sandy while I got sunburned to a crisp. My own kids lived at
Lake Sutherland and fond memories carried them to adulthood.

Observation: All Donna has to do now to terminate a visit where
Charlotte is to be the supervisor is to pack two bags . One, if
inspected will contain inappropriate clothing and the visit will be
“immediately terminated.” She avoid ever having to confront anyone over
the identity of the supervisor thereby avoiding reporting that is not of
her liking. While on that subject we can assume she doesn’t like
Charlotte and her evolution as a supervising observer as Charlotte moved
from the observer of mundane, and usually trite and trivialized stuff,
to a more purposeful documenting of interactions as they occurred
between real people. I can assume that Sarah will eventually figure it
out and Donna will grow to hate her.

Horrible question: I am fascinated to know what happened to Chloe’s bike
as that edges into child abuse. Kid has bike. Dad loves to bike and has
frequently done biking with the Chloe and then kid does something
maternal grandmother doesn’t like and kid has to sell bike. How do I
report that and where is the accounting of the money?

What accusation or claim most accurately characterizes what you consider
"the nature of this case"? There are two closed CPS complaints,
compliments of Donna's family, both (utterly) unfounded! Have you
reviewed those 60 pages and would you like to?

I used to take Emily and Chloe to contact dance, where we all interacted
through climbing, dancing, swinging, and spinning around with each
other. It was among our favorite things to do. The new rules might be
utterly clear to extremists, but they clearly frustrate Chloe, who
demands the simple comfort she understood since before she was 2. Can
you tell us exactly what the rules are?

The word "inappropriate" flows like water around here, but all
"appropriate" behavior seems to do is produce more messed up kids, like
ones who lose their mom to cancer and then their dad to bureaucrats.

What accusation or claim most accurately characterizes what you consider
"the nature of this case"? There are two closed CPS complaints,
compliments of Donna's family, both (utterly) unfounded! Have you
reviewed those 60 pages and would you like to?

I describe the nature of this case thusly: Donna and her family make
hysterical accusations, raising uproar after uproar, accustomed to
wearing people down until they give up. When you give up, Chloe loses.
Here's why:

This child, whose diapers I changed, who sat on my lap since before she
knew the word "yes", who I taught to swim, who swam all last summer with
me while her mom cheered from the shore, loses more and more of these
connections to the past, loses more of the reassuring comfort I've
always provided, loses the continuity her mother and i fought for , and
i still fight for.

Today I shopped for child suspenders.

Do not let their underperformance harm her relationship with me.

I used to take Emily and Chloe to contact dance, where we all interacted
through climbing, dancing, swinging, and spinning around with each
other. It was among our favorite things to do. The new rules might be
utterly clear in extremist circles, but they clearly frustrate Chloe,
who demands the simple comfort she understood since before she was 2. I
require a clear explanation, and Chloe deserves one. Tell me exactly
what the rules are. The word " inappropriate" flows like water around
here, but all "appropriate" behavior seems to do is produce more messed
up kids , like ones who lose their mom to cancer and then their dad to
bearucrats.

and then get badgered away from their dad.

I'm thinking of wearing red underwear outside my clothes, and letting
Chloe do the same, Then I will relay the precise rules to her.

I don't think Sarah understands any of this.

The latest wave is "lap-sitting hysteria" and I am curious where it came
from. Kids sit on the laps of cherished adults. The goal is probably to
extinguish Chloe's need for the intimacy satisfied by sitting on laps,
driven by the paranoia of adults who are packing a huge load of their
own issues stemming from their own childhood betrayals. Donna is an
extremist. Delivering rigidity to her is

If the Mairs screw up, do not imply I am anyone but the guy ready to
care for the child.

I'm in Superior Court at incredible cost so the Mairs won't quickly
crush the close relationship the child has with me . But maybe they will
do it slowly, through repeated bungling. But

Unfortunately, Sarah's reports are lengthy yet omit critical details.
All reports are reviewed by my team, which includes people who taught
report-writing for police and emergency response organizations. We worry
that Sarah's unfocused reports could distract the GAL from the clear
patterns shown in reports from all other supervisors. All reports are
entered into the public record for this case. Obviously if Donna orders
a report then one will be prepared . We have other critcisms of Sarah's
service, but We just struggle to justify the expense of paying for
Sarah's reports.

Repeated failures by Donna Mairs to accomodate swimming apparently makes
wading impossible. Why does it seem like the change punishes Chloe and
me most of all?

I await the conclusion of your investigation. I write with information
that might help you. One thing I realized when I accepted Emily's
invitation to move to Tacoma to help her die and to raise Chloe is that
I could not do it alone. So starting in November, and throughout the
entire crisis, I called all of my friends. You say a friend of mine has
given you information about me. If they aren't on this list, they aren't
my friend:

Harry Silva William Houts Howard Dempsey Jan Dempsey and Tom Sampson
Jason Dempsey Jeanine Kawal (Dempsey) James and Janice Dempsey Jeris
Ockfen Nir Sadovnik Patricia and Herb Dempsey Rachel Scott Walter Wittel
Michael Cleaver Diedre O'Neil Eric Wesley George Soler Carolee and
Jerome Johnson

My concern all along has been that you have been contacted by Joy
Laydbak. I haven't seen her in three years, and she has a long, colorful
history of making false claims to CPS. In June or July, she included me
in a declaration regarding the custody of her child, who she currently
has limited access to as the result of a trial in King County. But maybe
she didn't call CPS. Maybe you called someone. Maybe you would like to
call the people I actually kept in close contact with during this
ordeal. If you want to, there they are.

Please let me know if there are any ways I can expedite your evaluation
of the allegation that I intend a life of sexual violence against Chloe
Murphy.

Also, I have reviewed the closed cases, and learned what you meant when
you asked if I "jump on and bite" Chloe. She was referring to a
disciplinary act we called "time-in" which contained her and asserted
authority. Containment could be confused with "jumping" on her, and
growling could be confused with biting. This technique is a healthy and
positive way to reign in a child who is asserting dominance over adults.
Emily and I practiced it since Chloe was very young. Ask Chloe about
"time in".

The other thing you said the one time we met was that "that shouldn't
occur with people who are not biologically related to the child." Kyle
Coker, the man you claimed cared for Chloe has abandoned her yet again,
but I won't. I have only sought to make the ongoing parent-child
relationship legitimized by law. I can only describe your statement as
rooted in 19th century thinking. Is this really the view of CPS, that
only biological relations are culturally acceptable to meet all the
various needs of a child? I wish we had a recording of that unusual
statement during that interview.

Finally, I know I requested the closed documents before Heather Young
did, and I know you provided them to her a month before you provided
them to my attorney. You affixed a smiley face to her copy, and she
thanked you for your extremely responsive attention. This is bias.

So of course I think about you, and wonder how your investigation is
going. You have contact information for a lot of people I spoke with and
saw throughout this period. To my knowledge, I know of no friend or
family member of mine contacted by CPS. Not a single one. But perhaps
I'm mistaken. Time will tell.

Hi, Christine.

I describe the nature of this case thusly: Donna and her family make
hysterical accusations, raising uproar after uproar, accustomed to
wearing people down until they give up. When you give up, Chloe loses.
Here's why:

This child, whose diapers I changed, who sat on my lap since before she
knew the word "yes", who I taught to swim, who swam all last summer with
me while her mom cheered from the shore, loses more and more of these
connections to the past, loses more of the reassuring comfort I've
always provided, loses the continuity her mother and i fought for , and
i still fight for.

Today I shopped for child suspenders.

Do not let their underperformance harm her relationship with me.

Every parent I've asked says they've done everything I'm "accused" of
doing. Lap-sits, shoulder rides, 6 year olds watching cartoons in their
room (with no clothes! shock!). This child has never showed a single
indication of experiencing sexual abuse, nor has she ever articulated
anything like it. Nor do I have any history of abusing children, nor
does anyone in my family. Donna's family, however, has a complex history
of abuse.

So we hear lots of rumblings, but never any smoking gun, about my
alleged sexual abuse. Ok, what do we clearly see? We see extremists
getting their way through badgering, judicial abuse, underperformance,
and lots and lots of "there' s a crisis!" handwaving. When you take
something from Chloe because Donna can't handle simple details, Chloe
loses. Why not ask me to provide suspenders first?

Your organization may be asked soon to evaluate my parental skill.
Surely that could include documentation of all the ways I compensate for
Donna's pattern of failures (like providing child suspenders). At least
give me that option before taking away treasured opportunities like
splashing at the beach. I've always tried hard to work with you to make
clear plans and solve problems. Could you return the favor when problems
arise?

What accusation or claim most accurately characterizes what you consider
"the nature of this case"? Would you like to call 2 child
psychotherapists I call personal friends? A social worker? An R.N.? 5
career educators who know me well? They all agree: The nature of this
case is judicial abuse driven by religious extremism and anger. At the
last hearing , 12 people sat with me for 3 hours while Donna sat alone.
So there might be a very different "nature" to this case than you
realize. I provided not just a beach, but a beach house with a career
educator to assist where I cannot. I disappear when Chloe needs a simple
shower. Tell me, what about the nature of this case is problematic here?
Go ahead , be honest.

I can convince Chloe it's fall and splashing around isn't going to work
anymore. But who knows, we might drag on into next summer. She craves
swimming indoors, too. Maybe it's smart to hash out some strategies for
dealing with Donna's clear pattern of dropping the ball. I'm always
available to work with you.

Regards,

John Dempsey 206-384-5335

not observing, just supervising, a cop role.

controlling and prescribing behavior rather than observing.

i question her purpose.

We request reports. Each report is reviewed by 5 experienced educators
and a retired police officer. All have extensive training in writing
observation reports.

your employee at this time. But we see a clear problem that she's
supervising, not observing. She's controlling and prescribing behavior
rather than observing effectively.

==

I have positive appraisals of 3 supervisors. Five career educators
review all reports. All Five have concerns about one supervisor. Two of
them have observed her work during a visit, and compared it to what they
observed. This report misses valuable statements and events. I'm
realizing it is because Chloe produced them. The policing aspect of your
service gets done but the more valuable details are not there. I am the
target of smears in family court. I have not been charged with any
crime. Try to imagine how the fixation with laps and omission of
emotional clues feels to me and my family. Your employment of this
distant, bored woman who only appears focused on policing is
inappropriate.

Em Chloe and I regularly sang in a Seattle group. All of this is gone
from chloes life and she is incredibly suited to this kind of
expression. Em would weep at what's going on.

==

I've read your declaration. Further explanation has been provided,
including the video itself. But what's more interesting to me is that
you know Carolee and Jerome Johnson! I've attached a letter from Carolee
about me and Chloe.

Grant gildas and bridges are art therapy programs and chloe has done
incredible in art therapy. It's sick that she has been removed
completely from this Methodoly of healing and grief. Instead she gins up
fake child Porn abuse as donna constructs memories with an unknown and
creepy tgerapist

Do you have any idea how much work I put into preparation for this
"fragile time"?

Write her a note that Carolee can hand-deliver.

====

I can't wait for your investigation. I know you got a report from Katy
Johnson about an allegation of a video of Chloe dressing. I brought this
video to the court, and showed it to the G.A.L. who found no sexual
content in it. How come you haven't asked to see the video?

I figured out what you were referring to regarding "jumping on" and
"biting" Chloe. It is not "jumping on" but rather holding her, and it's
not "biting" but just growling, for the purpose of asserting dominance
when a power struggle is in process. Emily and I call this "time in" and
it works.

Regarding Chloe doing a chore in a shirt and underwear, I haven't found
a parent who finds this level of clothing unusual for a child her age.
You said it is inappropriate for a child "who is not biologically
related to you." Your bias is screamingly obvious. But the biological
father who claimed to you that he cares so much? Can't even dial in to
the court during the hearings.

And my "friend" who has information? I think I know who that is, and I
haven't seen her in many years.

You have an obligation to the child to finish the investigation, not
just start it. It may be that I'm an exceptional father to her, and
interfering with that would be wrong.

I know if you don't ask to see the video in question that you aren't
working. How much more transparent could I get?

I hope you testify in this case! My attorney wants to depose you. Your
bias and your poor investigative skills are clear to us. Come out, come
out, and stand by your conclusion.

====

I moved to my brother's home when Emily died and Chloe was taken because
he is uniquely qualified to help me at this time. Last year he married
in a fun wedding Chloe and I attended. Four months later his wife died
suddenly. At the same time, the mother of his daughter produced an
enormous, disingenuous, and unsuccessful case for custody opposing him.
When you review his and his daughter's DSHS files, you will see a wall
of accusations and claims which the court and G.A.L. ultimately
rejected.

I consider the resemblance between my year and my brother's 2013 to be
uncanny, as I hope you will soon understand. In fact his child's mother
recently mentioned me in a new declaration seeking custody by claiming
neglect of Epona. Though she is barred from meeting secretly with Epona,
she included pictures from secret meetings. She also asserted that I
might be responsible for Emily's injury. (I gave Emily brain cancer?)
Based on her past behaviors and this reference to me in a new
declaration, we speculate that she's the so-called "friend" reporting to
C.P.S. Time will tell.

I am not an attorney but am an investigator and look forward to this
process. I consider anyone representing Chloe to be my natural ally, but
understand the necessity of due diligence in response to all allegations
and claims. For example, I know you seek the Mary Bridge intake from
early 2013. Sylvia's report appears in the DSHS open file. When Emily
and I met with Sylvia, she said she had discovered literally no clues
suggesting the sexual assault took place. Presumably anything in the
medical examination would be a clue. Emily told me there was no
"physical exam" because the interview with the nurse did not indicate
any cause for one.

I am still preparing the 20 page intake for you. I will by necessity
outline the long history of emotional, sexual, and physical abuse in
Emily's family. I feel frustrated that you're looking around for any
kind of sexual abuse on my part, but I understand it's still very early
and I still have not mapped clearly where the actual bodies are buried
in Donna's family history. Ultimately you will determine that I and my
family have zero history of abuse and Donna and her family have a
pattern of abuse spanning at least 4 generations, which I will describe.
I am not spiteful or petty, and have deep empathy for Donna Mairs, but
there are substantial reasons Emily chose me to raise Chloe, based on
intimate knowledge of her mother. But for now I must prepare these 20
pages!

Also, my new address is:

Thank you and regards,

John Dempsey

206-384-5335

Phone Number: (760) 941-9859 Line Type: Land Line from california...
maybe his other line

Hi Kyle.

When you come to Tacoma, I want you to spend time with Chloe and me. I
know you think I'm terrible because you read so in detailed smears. (My
family calls the case "years vs. smears".) There will eventually be 50
hours of detailed visit reports. That can't compete with the scary lies
and innuendo mounted against me... commissioner Johnson saw through it.
You failed to call in to that first hearing.

Chloe must be told. We'll tell her together. You have every right to
remove her from my life, but you should understand the cruelty of your
choice. I'd like to send you the visit reports prepared so far. And I
insist we meet. You are not saving the day. But you have every right to
crush the only dad relationship Chloe has. She must be told . We should
tell her together.

=== WRITE TO KYLE

Remember the fun we had, and let fun guide your curiosity and learning.
You have the mind and curiosity to be a doctor or anything y your mind
to. Hope I inspired you when you were two three for five six and seven
to grow strong think hard and stay creative for a lifetime. Mom. Wished
for you to stay with me but mom doesn't make the rules anymore.

Your pictures and drawings will always hang on my wall.

Keep singing. Learn an instrument.

=== SAY GOODBYE FOR NOW

"When I first got to grandmas I had nightmares. When I am old enough to
choose where I live I will live with you in Seattle."

Story In sand sculptures: "the queen died and the castle fell on the
king and the princess."

"You should get a job like Daniel (a child play psychotherapist) so you
can help other kids. "

Chloe is outrageously smart. Guilt can still crush her. Paying for
supervised visits is cheaper and more effective than a therapist for me.

===== RESPONSE TO CROSS-MOTION DUE THURSDAY NOON

look in the archive for clues about medical insurance and provide this
information to camille.

===== HELP CHLOE GET MEDICAL INSURANCE

voicemails from Chloe.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Paula Brown:

I am an educator and first aide instructor and xxx. Oceanside for her
first overnight camping trip. She has not missed a family 4th with us
since her first at age 2.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Jan Dempsey:

JAN LEAVES TOWN SATURDAY!

In december, I spoke with Emily in my home about trouble she was having
changing her estate plan using the attorney who had prepared her
original will. I recommended getting another attorney. In this
conversation Emily described John as "The Man".

I hosted many family events at my house, including Thanksgiving,
Father's Day, and Christmas Eve sleepover. John, Chloe, and Emily
usually attended these events with the Dempsey family. During these
events, I observed Chloe consistently calling John "Dad". I observed
Emily and John engaging in consistently cordial, playful conversation.

John has always called me when faced with hard problems or decisions. I
discussed John's move to Tacoma with him for many hours before he
decided to move. Later I spoke many hours with him about challenges he
faced once in Tacoma. I visited them at his Tacoma apartment. It is very
clear to me that John moved to Tacoma to help his dear friend Emily
during a very challenging time for her, and to raise Chloe as Emily
wished him to. I have absolutely no reason to believe John had any
unseemly or devious motives. I also know through lengthy conversations
that he worked very hard to care for both Emily and Chloe throughout
this period.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Jason Dempsey:

On October 26th, 2013, during a family trip to Olympia, Emily relayed to
Jason that she was excited to know John would care for Chloe after she
was gone.

On one Saturday I cared for Emily while John took Chloe to Gilda's Club
cancer therapy. John provided a clear and understandable table for
scheduling and logging medication administrations. The prescription
instructions for all medications were clearly displayed on the cabinet
doors around the medication preperation area. I set alarms on my
smartphone based on the clear medication schedule John provided.

Chloe chose John as much as John chose Chloe.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Jeris Ockfen:

I am John's mother. I am a retired schoolteacher with a Master's degree
in young child education. Emily, Chloe, and John visited me and my
husband about 8 times per year over 5 years. I always observed John and
Emily to have a friendly relationship. I observed Chloe to look to John
as her dad. In that role John provided healthy, supportive, firm
guidance.

John volunteered in my kindergarten classroom when he was young. He is
engaging and observant, and children enjoyed learning from him. With
Chloe, he encouraged her curiousity while enforcing boundaries.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Harry Silva:

I lived with John Dempsey while he dated Emily Murphy during the 3rd and
4th years of Chloe Murphy's life. I estimate that I spent 50 weekends
with them. I also visited them at least a dozen times since then, at
John's apartment in Seattle and at the Tacoma apartment they shared.

John and Emily always interacted in a witty, positive way together. John
engaged Emily and Chloe in healthy ways and maintained and enforced
boundaries with Chloe. I never witnessed inappropriate or abusive
behavior.

John worked hard to prepare for Emily and Chloe's visits. He would clean
the whole house and buy healthy food they all liked.

John added carpeting and lighting to a small, short closet to make a
space Chloe named The Book Club. In this space John provided paints and
coloring books, and let Chloe paint on the walls. John gathered toys for
Chloe like finger paints and clay. John played with Chloe very actively.

Emily and John often sang together, usually in a silly way. They had a
strong friendship. Most of their focus was on Chloe.

When apart, they would often talk on Skype together. Sometimes I joined
these video conversations.

Throughout this period Chloe referred to John as dad, as she does to
this day.

John played interactively and creatively with Chloe. John brought home
toys like clay and paints for Chloe. John and Chloe often pretended to
be animals like horses, or prtended to be in a nest as momma bird and
hatchling. John created swings and hammocks where Chloe could play. John
made a scooter so he and Emily could take Chloe safely through the
neighborhood. We have videos of Chloe riding with John on these
scooters, climbing trees with John, and running across UW's Red Square
with John and Emily following along. John always encouraged and
protected Chloe, and engaged her with enthusiasm.

I saw John provide engage with Chloe intensely, positively, and
actively. That is how John became Chloe's dad. I know that relationship
was established through the focused interactions I witnessed between
Emily, Chloe, and John over these years.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Bettina Wegleitner:

I am a trained and former C.N.A. I am now training to be a doctor's
assistant. I am also Emily Murphy's best friend since childhood. I have
four children.

Emily spoke of her relationship with John over many years. She said John
and Chloe were very close and love each other like a father and
daughter.

I visited Emily at least ten times at the apartment where she resided
with John and Chloe. I would bring take-out food, or take them to the
restaurant nearby. When she became paralyzed, I would provide Emily with
a full shower.

Up until mid-April, Emily could speak clearly and freely. She told me
both her parents told her she was not competent, which annoyed her.

She demonstrated the same awareness and perceptive humor I observed
growing up with her.

I saw John work hard for Emily during her health decline, both before
and during her hospice care. John prepared a safe home for her while her
mobility and stability declined. Eventually Emily became paralyzed, and
required constant monitoring. John provided this care. He prepared
medicine on a schedule through the day, logged medication intake,
crushed tablets, and administered medicine in Jell-O to avoid choking.
John worked with hospice staff to change Emily's briefs (diapers) and
maintain her cleanliness.

At no time did I suspect that John was abusing Emily. To the contrary,
Emily said she was happy living with John and Chloe in the apartment,
and she appeared to be happy. John's effort to care for Emily was very
sincere. I always saw humor, affection and friendship between John and
Emily. I believe John provided a comfortable home to Emily and Chloe as
long as he could.

====

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Allison:

allison: forbade by parents to visit Donna and Darin Murphy home after
witnessing "no rules" behavior, sex parties, lsd parties, drinking
parties, other inappropriate activities.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Melissa Massay:

Michelle E. Massey, MSW, LICSW, OSW-C Social Worker, Gilda's Club
Seattle John Dempsey, Emily Murphy, and Chloe Murphy joined Gilda's Club
on \_\_\_\_\_. John attended Gilda's Club therapy on \_\_\_\_ occasions.
Chloe Murphy always attended with him.

John enrolled Chloe in the Camp Sparkle day camp July 21-25 at Meridith
Matthews YMCA in Tacoma

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Lisa Duke:

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of martin Bullard, Ph.D.:

I observed John's provide healthy interactions with children that have
serious emotional challenges. John employed an enthusiastic and engaging
style that encouraged even disruptive kids to choose positive and fun
alliterative to acting out. I never witnessed John treat a child
abusively.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of William Houts:

During a party, William saw donna fucking a man other than Darin, her
husband at the time.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Bettinas dad:

Darin was absent as a parental figure when his daughters were young.

===

POTENTIAL NEW Declaration of Pat the social worker:

Emily confirmed many times she wants John to adopt Chloe.

===

Response to Barbara:

I entered the room when I heard Barbara praying or speaking in tongues
over Emily. I also heard her express doubt about Emily's plan for Chloe.
Emily previously told me on many occasions to protect her when people
are with her. Knowing emily is an ATHEIST, and knowing she was being
asked questions about the adoption, a matter on which her position has
been made very clear, I entered the room and stayed close to Emily.
Barbara stopped praying at that time.

I never ask Emily if she loves me. I just tell her I love her. To my
knowledge, Emily has never said she doesn't love me. She did not ask me
to stop giving her small kisses on that occasion.

I control the computer screen time in the house. I often require Chloe
to do "active" things like taking a walk with me rather than watch
cartoons. This is part of being a father to Chloe.

Adult Protective Services found no reason to believe Emily is being
abused or mistreated. The complaint with Adult Protective Services
included allegations of financial abuse. Barbara was exposed to no
specific information to suggest any such abuse could be taking place.
The rest of her testimony probably also contains speculative or
exaggerated claims.

===

Response to Candace:

I love Chloe very much and have since we met. That's not excessive. It
just is a different kind of love than I felt for Emily.

I cared for Emily from December 2013 to mid-May of 2014, during her
rapid decline into paralysis and speechlessness. This care included
chemotherapy, which involved urine sampling. Due to growing paralysis, a
sample could require challenging bathroom maneuvers and hours of effort
and waiting. At home I faced challenging falling risks, very complex
medication needs, and vomiting events, while also caring for Chloe and
assuring Chloe was not overwhelmed or frightened without support. I
developed friendships with neighbors who insulated Chloe when needed.
Often I spent all night responding to and treating Emily's nausea. Due
to Emily's fatigue and lost mobility, I also handled all typical tasks
like cooking and taking out the trash.

In King County Emily, Chloe, and I enjoyed a lot of Seattle activities
that aren't easy to find in Tacoma. We had a whole set of coffee shops,
restaurants, and substantial park settings in walking distance of my
house. We routinely visited UW campus and ran around Red Square. We had
family friends and neighbors, both adults and children we played with.
We visited beaches with friends and my family. On at least six
occasions, we visited Donna's sister's house for dinner or to visit, and
twice we attended classical music perforances featuring Donna's sister
and brother-in-law, who are musicians.

In 2013 we considered moving Chloe and Emily to Seattle, but had to
scrap the idea because of Emily's medical needs.

I have provided for half of Chloe's expenses since December, 2013. In
2010 I made Chloe the sole beneficiary of my will, for her education.
Emily has not asked me for any financial support for Chloe. During our
trips and meals together I paid most bills without comment or
hesitation. Emily has been clear for many years that Chloe does not lack
financial support. In addition to providing for Chloe with disability
and retirement income, Emily regularly bought meals for her sisters. I
typically refused to let Emily buy things for me, and preferred to pay
for her and Chloe.

Emily provided support for Donna and Richard Mairs, paying their phone
bill in addition ro rent. Her rent was equivalent to what she paid when
living independently with Chloe. Her monthly expense profile reduced
when she moved in with John.

Candace's statements about Mexico are false. Emily, Chloe, and I spent a
great deal of time away from Candace, in a condo with a pool. That's
where I began teaching Chloe to swim. Chloe enjoyed swimming and was
never bored or restless at the condo. We would also go for food and
fresh juice nearby, or run around the large, secure condo compound.

I always watch Chloe very closely, especially in an environment like a
Mexican street. I also trust Emily's family and the local Mexican
extended family to look after Chloe. No one ever expressed concern or
reservation about providing Chloe care and protection. I always knew
where Chloe was or who she was with, and I provided care every time it
was needed. I have always accepted my role as protector, which matters
most when no one else is doing so.

I am not socially distant. I do not like Candace. Her statements and
tone are often condescending and paternalistic. I don't want to be
social with her based on her consistent condescension. During my travel
in Mexico I let her statements and tone pass without comment from me. I
consider this a polite response.

I do not defer to Chloe's demands.

When Emily had her seizure while driving, I went to Chloe's school to
comfort her.

I am an active hospice caregiver Involved in daily logistics and problem
solving with daily (and nightly) support of Franciscan Hospice. While I
was caring for Sergeant Emily Murphy, Candace appeared without
appointment at our apartment. Emily was tired. Candace insulted my
appearance during the elevator ride. The blankets she saw enforced the
darkness that reduced Emily's headaches. In the early portion of her
hospice care, and for many months before hospice arrived, Emily gave
explicit instructions that the room remain completely dark and
completely quiet, to reduce tax on her brain, and facilitate sleep.

Emily asked me to stay close when all but a short list of friends and
family visit. I didn't turn on the lights because they give Emily
headaches. Candace initiated the hug. When Candace asked if she could
return, EMILY SAID NO. Undeterred, Candace implied Emily was confused,
and badgered her to consent. Emily finally quiesced and said Ok. After
Candace left, I asked Emily if Candace is a friend, and Emily said she's
a "fake friend". She then asked me to keep Candace away from her.

Detailed and scrupulous accounting proves I am not living on Emily's
income. Candace has no specific information about the accounting of our
home, and her speculative statement is inappropriate for an agent of the
court.

Emily and Chloe have CONSISTENTLY joined me at Dempsey family social and
holiday gatherings! And I regularly have been with them at Mairs social
and holiday gatherings. They seek to imply I'm not a member of Emily's
family. I assure you Emily is a member of mine! Miles of pictures prove
this.

In Seattle, Chloe regularly played with two good young friends in our
apartment, and two good adult friends, a child psychotherapist and a
professional musician. I regularly took all the kids to the park or
water park. We also spent lengthy time with our friend Harry, who lived
with me in Seattle. On at least five occasions, we visited Emily's
sister Melissa at her home, and we also visited Emily's uncle Ned and
aunt Kate in Seattle for meals and visiting at least 6 times.

Emily understood well what the Gamma Knife treatment was. But Emily's
ability to speak improved substantially when she moved in with me. \[Jan
Dempsey can declare.\] Prior to that she was being abused by her
parents, who would tell her she is not competent to make her own choices
or decisions. Once she lived with me she became more radiant and could
speak better... for a few months. Dr. Dong (Brain Injury specialist) and
the Lisenced Psychologist who administered the Mini-Mental Status
Examination confirmed Emily UNDERSTANDS, but cannot easily EXPRESS. Many
have misunderstood this to mean she does not UNDERSTAND.

While travelling in Mexico, Candace relayed to me that Jennifer's travel
companion had just revealed to Candace a history of prison punishment
for unconsentual sex abuse. With knowledge of this man in our travel
party, how did Candace allow Chloe to be unsupervised? Her declaration
does not include specific steps she took to protect Chloe based on her
first-person knowledge of risk. She was obliged to protect Chloe but
abandoned the child in presence of a man known to her to sexually abuse
minors.

===

Response to Darin:

Emily called the big meeting "round two". She called the first meeting
at Joni's office "round one". This is how she characterizes her father's
attempt to derail her wishes for her daughter.

Joyce Robson is Emily and my attorney, not just mine.

Darin was incredibly domineering at this meeting, as you know. How could
Emily say much? It was more like a daytime talk-show than a meeting of
any sincerity.

Emily currently has a "full resuscitation and life support" POLST. If we
were married--and this has been the concern all along--then she could
easily bankrupt us both in dying, making it hard for me to care for
Chloe. What would be the benefit? Instead I care for her full-time and
know my loyalty to her. She tells me she loves me very much, and that
she is forever in my debt. Unlike everyone who claims to care so much, I
showed up and have given her full-time care through the toughest time of
her life. What would a ring change?

Changes to Emily's estate plan were discussed with Joni Irving during
the first meeting, and so were not secret.

There are no false or misleading statements on adoption application
papers submitted to Joni Irvin. Our attorney Joyce Robson told us Joyce
was chastized for misrepresenting our petition as a step-parent
adoption. I believe Joyce may have acted in haste based on Emily's
unusual circumstances. Joni specified in her letter to Joyce that the
case may require a litigated outcome, rather than the adoption mechanism
of Pierce County executive that Joni provides. Joni did not attribute
false or misleading statements to me, and I have made none to her.

According to Emily, Sarah exposed Ally to a known sex offender who was a
friend of Sarah's. This man sexually abused Ally, and Ally abused Chloe
in turn on at least two occasions in both the attic and bathtub of Donna
Mairs' home.

Before leaving Donna, Darin Murphy maintained a sexual relationship with
the woman who ultimately became his second wife. (Mariela Murphy is his
third wife.)

===

Response to Mariela:

I said a lot of things that one night in the hotel. We made a lot of
plans, and changed a lot of plans, since that night. I was concerned, an
reasonably so, that I might not have enough love to care for Emily
through her death. But I'm doing it, mostly because my love for her grew
substantially.

I visited Mariela's living area in Mexico on all three trips I took
there. In her home, she lived behind a sheet while her children occupied
beds on the other side of the sheet. (In contrast, I disgussed "draping
off" a modest sleeping area from a livingroom, while giving Chloe her
own full bedroom.) Did Mariela adopt different moral standards upon
moving to the United States?

When Emily and I separated, I did date a woman who did not like
children. She was offended when I insisted on spending time with Chloe
while dating her. Her preference against children was a primary reason I
stopped seeing her in early 2013. A few months after leaving her, I
returned to Emily.

===

Response to Jennifer:

Chloe often wears a large shirt (such as a sweater) to bed. Jenny did
not alert me to her concern when this event occured, but I imagine it
occured after bed time. With my permission, Chloe probably changed beds
from her own bed to the guest bed to be with Jennifer. I confront Chloe
when I see her naked, and make her put on clothes. I am always clothed
or covered when in view of anyone else in my home.

Emily walked chlie to school throughout 2013 and was proud of the daily
exercise.

Buying gumballs at Westlake center

Flying home with Chloe

Transferring Chloe to Donna at tacoma dome after a bus trip

Ten years dance, four years public singing, seven years residing with
music therapist, One year volunteer with social delayed young Chidren,
one year volunteering at high school level teaching comp sci.

Because his feelings are foreign to him, grief will take years to work
through. I only saw denial, then mounting anger. But ya can't get mad at
cancer for killing (u should), ya can't get mad at Emily for dying, So i
became the target. And I think they were both just jealous that Emily
wanted to live and die with me. So they fabricated a comforting delusion
that she didn't know what she was doing. I bet Emily was the most
beautiful woman to ever love Darin, So his grief must be stupendous, and
hidden under all that narcissism and delusion it must fester and burn.

I call Emily my sweetheart, lover, and muse.

We crushed a penny in the Monorail station. It embossed the monorail.

I recount specific memories because I want you to determine what
memories exist of Donna with Chloe.

Emily said regularly that memories are a critical part of childhood. 
That's why I chose my uncle's beach house.  That's why I have but just
dates but hundreds of memories to share with you. How do I compare to
Donna on quality vs quantity?

Disney with my custody. Gold a and Jason and wpona

We called each other mom and dad. Chloe was the unifying factor in every
choice q we made.

When she stopped badgering we talked about friendship. what kind of
anything could I be if not a friend first? So we'd call each other
friend. Realize I dated Mel who seemed so mean to me, and Emily saw
things In her parents relationships that seemed more like helplessness,
Control, and static gender roles than friendship. Friend, mom, muse,
sweetheart... I don't care what her dad wanted. I cared what was real
that we had.

Revive the other phone for evidence.

Accrue all evidence in one place.

At her repeated requests, I have promised to welcome her with open arms
when she is free to choose where she lives.  I dead how fucked up she is
likely to be. But my commitment is for life.

Never had a serious conversation with Donna, except two that I
initiated. Despite very serious environment and concerns, Donna has not
approached me about anything serious.

In the second adoption meeting Darin forcefully denied calling Emily
incompetent to make decisions, and claimed he was in Mexico at the time
that meeting took place. Emily told me Darin was preparing for his trip
when the interaction took place. Essentially he sought to deny any
meeting could have taken place.

During a Dempsey family vacation in Long Beach, WA, Emily described
Donna to Herb Dempsey as "a punching bag."

On other days, Emily was examined by 5 agents of the court before
signing other documents expressing her clear and consistent wish that I
raise Chloe Murphy. She also performed a Mini-Mental State Examination
administered by a Doctor of Psychology. She was evaluated in January by
Dr. Natalie Dong to have clear thinkjng with aphasia, which is only an
inability to speak clearly. She was evaluated regularly by the hospice
social worker to have every ability to express her wishes, and she
expressed her wishes consistently. I am providing my own belief that on
that particular day, as was true the months before and the months after,
she was competent to make decisions including specifics in her will. But
in addition to my own belief, I ask you consider the enormous legal
substantiation of her wishes by these legal and medical professionals.

I have absolutely no reason to believe she lacked competency, the
ability to know the implications of her actions. She had told me for
over a year that she wanted me to raise Chloe. She had wished for it
since at least 2012. Her attitude and behavior on that day was very
consistent with what she had been asking of and telling me for over a
year. I saw absolutely no reason to believe she lacked the ability to
understand the choices she was making.

Emily only said of Kyle that he’s a coward. I am very grateful to Emily
for the concise, erudite clues she gave me. She had a very clear grasp
on people at a gut level. And I ask you: Does a woman so able to
incisively deconstruct all the parties for me well into her hospice care
sound like an incompetent decision-maker to you? There was nothing
incompetent about her. She just became unable to speak, too tired to
stay awake, and died. Allegations that she was incompetent are not based
on any information gathered from any professional who ever met her in
2014. She just couldn’t speak. In fact, the hospice nurse, the highest
ranking regular visitor to her bedside, explained the complexity of
ignoring her POLST: So long as she communicated clearly--using blinks or
hand-holds or anything—she was competent to make decisions about her
end-of-life choices (or her will, or the custody of her child). In my
experience, she was competent until the last day I saw her, a week
before her death. Therefore, her father never had legal authority to
modify her POLST, and the POLST he presented at her bedside was not
signed by any doctor anyway. I had many conversations with her about her
wish to have all means of life support and extension. Emily rarely
changed her mind.

Based on this appraisal, substantiated by details and corroborating
Witnesses, please consider informing Joni Irvin of this appraisal. She
was, in my view, persuaded to place two children into a harmful home
environment.

I regularly initiate appropriate intervention when Chloe pursues an
inappropriate or unwise course. I do not let her remain out of control.
I learned these specific skills when caring for socially delayed
children Chloe's age as a volunteer at the Flying Colors theraputic
childcare program, a service of Seattle Children's Home.

CPS sought authorization from Kyle Coker to place her in their custody.
CPS organized telephone communications between Coker and Chloe. Coker
raised Chloe's hopes for a reunification. Then Coker abandoned Chloe at
a second critical juncture of her life. Please do not let this happen
yet again.

Donna said it would take her, and especially Richard, time to forgive
me.

Later Emily was very, very upset by Donna's statements to me about being
"a child"... Emily scoffed at how Donna said Richard is the one who is
upset. Emily said Donna says this, and it's a strange pattern. I don't
think it's strange. I think it's ill. I'm pretty sure that comment came
after Donna had promised Emily that I would remain in Chloe's life, so
Emily began questioning Donna's honesty about that.

The Chloe Song is a song Emily wrote for Chloe, which I learned and
regularly sing or play for her on piano, ukulele, and guitar. I see her
face light up when this special tune is played. What more comfort could
there be, and yet this is a fundamentally artistic expression, a
particular song with a particular tune, that comforts her and ties her
to her history. I’ve already explained that Donna and Richard stopped
attending Bridges grief therapy, and how they failed to plan or propose
secure plans for Chloe, ignoring the risks presented by Kyle Coker’s
legal rights. Did they even learn Chloe’s song? Do they sing it to Chloe
now? This is an example of the kind of continuity I promised Emily and
continue to provide. While Donna despaired at the *pending* death, Emily
repeated, “I’M THE ONE WITH CANCER.” There was so much only Emily could
provide, needed to provide, so Chloe would know her, and I took the
time, I learned the song, I addressed the custody insecurity. I knew I
was the one who would live on, with a duty to protect and raise Chloe
Murphy.

Em said only Darin could stand Andrea

Seemed strange at house. Illicit. Accusations of lying were feared.
Punishment for lying were severe. Emily warned me nut to lie to Darin. 
Yet everything Darin did in this case And the adoption meeting was
lying.  In a calculated manner he intended to deceive authorities and
the court. Some virtue.

Much more Marine than Mormon.

Donna rarely visited the house. When she did, she would lecture me about
proper care.

I advocate play, art, and music therapy because the arts have had an
incredibly therapeutic impact on me. In the mid 90s I was in
debilitating neck and arm pain, unemployed and unemployable, when a
stranger took a room in my house and began playing the piano. The songs
he performed were haunting. He often played for the entire day or late
into the night. During a camping trip in Oregon with Dawn Devine, I
listened to a gunshot execution of a man that occurred around a campfire
of pre-teen girls having a birthday campout. The man was killed because
he didn't want to stop playing a drum. This incident disturbed me and I
began writing heavily soon thereafter. I began singing along with his
songs, writing my own songs and poems about the pain I was in, and
eventually performing with and without him around Seattle. I ultimately
concluded some of the songs were written for and about me, though he
never said so. Songs described my current condition, childhood, and
values in poetic, non-judgemental ways.

I taught Chloe to ride a bicycle. Emily and I had long fun conversations
into the night.

Donna is very attached to rules.

In San Francisco before her hospital visit Emily and I were visited by
my friend Michael Cleaver and his friend Diedre O’neil, now a licensed
social worker. Michael gave Emily and me a small amount of marijuana.
Emily smoked some and gave the rest to Melissa. As we left for the
airport, Melissa threw the remainder out the window of the car.
