<div id='may29'>

## DATE OF SERVICE: May 29. 2014

Duration of session was 65 minutes. Session attended by the patient. The
patient was seen today for significant stress due to multiple social and
environmental stressors. The patient was seen at Urgent Care on May 25,
2014, for the same reasons and referred to Behavioral Health at the
time.

HISTORY OF PRESENT ILLNESS: The patient reports that he was in his
usual state of relatively good mental health until the fall of 2013. At
the time, he was notified that his girlfriend received the diagnosis of
a terminal illness (brain cancer). Subsequently, he decided to move in
with her and care for her and her Geyeareold daughter. He states that
over the course of time, his girlfriend's family disagreed with him
caring for her and some of the specifiw of her decision making and her
will. This caused a significant falling-out which resulted in the
girlfriend's family taking the girlfriend to their house for care and
disputing her will, specifically in regard to the custody of his
girlfriend's daughter. The patient reports significant anxiety symptoms
with poor sleep, poor appetite, feeling anxious and nervous, and being
unable to control worrying. He also reports depressed mood, anhedonia,
feeling tired. feeling guilty. and having trouble concentrating. He
denies suicidal or homicidal ideation. He denies perceptual changes or
delusional thoughts. The patient reports having had periods of high
anxiety in the past; however. not to the degree of the current symptoms,
The patient does report some brief episodic mood highs. They were not
associated with psychotic symptoms or hospitalizations. He states that
they are usually related to either stressors or positive experiences. He
does not give a consistent history of hypomanic or manic symptoms today;
however, does describe increased episodes of increased irritability and
increased goaledirected behavior generally in the context of an
environmental situation,

PAST PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY: The patient reports that he was admitted one
time to University Hospital in the context of depression that evolved in
the context of substance use in 1993, He also reports an episode of high
anxiety when he was in financial problems and trying to sell a house in
2001. He also states that he was prescribed paroxetine in 1997, 1998,
during a period of anxiety. He took paroxetine for about one month; it
caused significant yawning and caused significant withdrawal symptoms.

The patient never made a suicide attempt nor preparations for self-harm.

FAMILY PSYCHIATRIC HISTORY: The patient reports depression in his
mother. No history of bipolar disorder,

DRUG AND ALCOHOL HISTORY: The patient has a remote history of using
hallucinogens. He has a history of significant marijuana use over the
last several decades. He states he was a heavy cannabis user up until
about five months ago, using daily until he moved in with his
girlfriend, After that, he used sporadically and none over the last four
weeks. He associated marijuana use with relaxation, is, however. not
aware that it may increase anxiety and depression. He has never been in
treatment or suffered significant withdrawal symptoms from cannabis or
other drugs.

MEDICAL HISTORY: He has allergies and is receiving treatment. He has no
known drug allergies.

<div id='misery'>
SOCIAL HISTORY: The patient is currently living with his brother. He
used to work as a technical writer and is currently not working. He is
anticipating court hearings in the next week regarding custody for his
girlfriend's daughter, which is significantly Stressful.

MENTAL STATUS EXAMINATION: The patient is casually dressed, not very
well-groomed, cooperative, with good eye contact. He is tearful at
times. He is carrying a blanket, wearing a hat. Speech is low volume,
normal rate and rhythm. Mood is "depressed for the past week." Affect is
restricted, anxious, tearful at times. Thought process is linear,
logical, and mostly goaledirected. Thought content: The patient denies
perceptual changes or delusional thoughts. Insight and judgement are
good. The patient is alert and oriented x3. Danger to self: The patient
denies. Danger to others: The patient denies.
</div>

CLINICAL FORMULATION: This is a 44-yearâ€”old patient with a past history
of episodic high level of anxiety and depression, possibly consistent
with recurrent major depression with anxiety. It is not clear from this
interview whether the patient has had hypomanic episodes. certainly
clear that he denies manic episodes. The patient has currently developed
an adjustment disorder with depressed mood and anxiety, possibly could
be also described as bereavement. The patient has benefitted from a
short course of clonazepam, so far has taken less than the prescribed
amount at this point. The patient has a history of heavy marijuana use,
currently denies use for the past four weeks. He has no significant
medical problems. He has a family history of depression in his mother.

DIAGNOSES:
 - Adjustment disorder with depressed mood and anxiety.
 - Mood disorder NOS.
 - Major depressive disorder versus bipolar II disorder.
 - Marijuana dependence, in remission,

TREATMENT PLAN: I discussed with the patient my diagnostic impressions.
I provided psychotherapy with psychoeducation and normalizing
his current experience, I also shared with him the assessment
regarding mood disorder and my current Impression that he does not
qualify for a bipolar diagnosis. However, we discussed the possibility
of a bipolar spectrum disorder and specific medication considerations
regarding this. I described to him the possibility of switching into
mania while taking antidepressant medication and the patient and I made
the shared decision to start on Lexapro after discussing risks and
benefits in detail.

PLAN:

1. Start escitaloprarn 5 mg daily for now. Consider increase in two
weeks or as tolerated ((consider buspirone if not tolerated).

2. Continue clonazepam, take one-half tablet or 0.25 mg twice daily.

3. Referral to psychotherapy. The patient was given information how
to reach the clinic during business hours orthe consulting nurse
after hours in case of an emergency. Follow up was recommended in
two or three weeks or sooner if needed. The patient has a therapy
appointment tomorrow, May 30, 2014, at 8 am.

</div>
