Herb Dempsey\
27001 86^th^ Avenue East\
Graham, WA 98338\
(253) 847-6819

Joni M. Irvin\
5501 Sixth Avenue\
Tacoma, Washington 98406

Dear Ms. Irvin,

I have no concerns with the fact that John Dempsey is adopting Chloe. I
know the adoption is in the best interests of Chloe. I watched as Chloe,
years ago, began calling John, “Dad.” John patiently explained that he
wasn’t Chloe’s “Dad” and she persisted. Chloe knew, and it took the rest
of us some time to catch up, that John is Chloe’s Dad.

Chloe has been a member of this family for years. John has loved Chloe
as his daughter for years even though he did not want her to be confused
by the fact, which he explained patiently, that there were complications
in that definition of the relationship. At family events, from
Thanksgiving through Christmas and to camping in the family compound in
Ocean Park every year for several years John has been Chloe’s Dad and
Emily has been Chloe’s Mom. They look just like any other family. Chloe
goes to sleep in Dad’s lap and John tends to family matters like cleanup
and trips to the beach.

I have a few hundred pictures in the family album for anyone who wishes
further empirical and admissible evidence. I took the pictures over the
years at real family events and the chain of custody is impeccable.
Chloe at the beach, Chloe dressed as a princess at Christmas and Chloe
wolfing down a turkey at Thanksgiving are all still just Chloe being a
kid in a family.

I have included a sheet of random shots that will give anyone who is
asking a graphic impression of the facts. Please feel free to call me is
I can offer any additional support to this most important event in both
of their lives.

Yours truly,

Herb Dempsey

# See Attachments

![](img/noise/hd/image1.jpg)

![](img/noise/hd/image2.JPG)

![](img/noise/hd/image3.JPG)

![](img/noise/hd/image4.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image5.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image6.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image7.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image8.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image9.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image10.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image11.jpg)

![](img/noise/hd/image12.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image13.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image14.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image15.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image16.jpeg)

![](img/noise/hd/image17.jpg)

![](img/noise/hd/image18.jpg)


**[End](/]**

<br>
<br>

