# Governance of kitchen

I still enjoy the space, but Mary may 
be advocating for a less functional and 
less safe configuration. I believe she 
is frustrated by the unrented room. I 
suspect if that got mitigated, she 
might start acting more thoughtfully 
and rationally. However, her wishes and 
my own are conflicting. I'm not sure 
there's a mid-point. And I'm not even 
sure I understand if these are her 
motives, as she has shared no motives 
with me.

Mary began with these two demands 
around January 14, 2019:

## 1. Return refrigerator with back against wall

**Rationale:**

1. Mary claims this position prevents 
use of the table by two people. In 
fact, no configuration of the 
refrigerator facilitates use by two 
people. Mary specified a second chair 
from the basement. I doubt there's any 
room for another chair. The area is 
suitable for one person at a time in 
every configuration. 2. Mary claims 
refrigerator position makes the room 
smaller. But the space by the door is 
new, and the trash makes more sense by 
the door there. This was clearly 
illustrated after Mary relocated the 
refrigerator and table, and concluded 
her remodel by throwing the trash bin, 
recycling, and bags under the table, 
making both the trash recepticals and 
the table useless.

**Modify refrigerator door would not 
help:** Since the table is round, it's 
also possible to use the table space on 
the other side of the refrigerator. 
Mary believed the "smart" thing to do 
is change the handles on the 
refrigerator door to use the other 
side. She said she has done this 
before. I don't share her view that the 
45-degree angle impedes use of the 
area, where I have resided for many 
months.

**Refrigerator needs rear air 
circulation:** I'm contractually 
obligated to assure optimal function of 
appliances. Refrigerators require air 
circulation along cooling coils. Air 
circulation is more available at the 
45-degree position.

**STATUS:** The refrigerator is more 
functional at this orientation, and its 
handle is fine as it is now.

## 2. Thicker shelf must go

Rationale:

1. Fire hazard. 
2. Consumes space in kitchen. 
3. Unattractive.

Facts:

1. I use the surface of the shelf 
almost every time I cook. I can put a 
hot pan onto it, or provide fruit or 
other food there throughout the day. 
2. I've added a metal firewall to secure 
cooking area. 
3. **I rely on this 
stable surface when standing to use the 
stove. Sometimes I am prone to falls, 
and this surface is necessary for my 
stability in this area.**
4. **The 
shelf also prevents me from slicing my 
scalp on the stove fan's metal curtain 
during a fall or any time.** 
5. If Mary 
is concerned about fire hazard, we must 
examine the stove that doesn't vent. Is 
that hazardous?

**STATUS:** Shelf is not a fire hazard, 
and is an assistive device protected by 
the ADA. For attractiveness, I could 
paint it.

I could replace the stability of the 
shelf with a floor-ceiling pole 
available at disability supply store. 
It would no longer function as a 
surface, in a kitchen plagued by 
inaccessible surfaces obscured by 
shadows. But if Mary prefers, she can 
achieve her goal by providing a 
floor-ceiling pole i can hold on to 
while cooking.

# Conclusions

Around mid-December, I alerted Mary to 
a safety danger due to the improper 
installation position and height of the 
cabinetry. Eye wound, heavy-bleeding 
scalp laceration, or concussion were 
all plausible. Mary acknowledged the 
danger, and verbally authorized the 
cabinet's removal at that time. *After 
a month of inaction,* I removed the 
dangerous cabinet. Mary later rebuked 
me.

Mary appeals to apparent concern about 
fire risk but does not want the city to 
evaluate her claims. I won't accept 
appeals to safety when I just watched 
her ignore a skull cut danger and even 
go further, criticizing the fact I 
acted to remove the risk. Does she care 
about my safety, or something else?

* Mary's appeals to **authority** seem 
to omit the city's authority, based on 
her stated preference for no 
documentation and no contact with 
authorities. 
* Mary's appeals to 
**safety** are not consistent with her 
inaction regarding the unsafe 
cabinetry. Rather than rebuking me for 
taking action after her month of 
inaction, she could have said, "Smart 
to protect your safety." 
* Mary's 
appeals to **function** are not 
accurate.

During our interaction, Mary implied 
that someone declined to reside here 
based on their appraisal of space in 
the kitchen. At that time I was not 
aware of any applicants that had seen 
the shelf or re-positioned 
refrigerator. When pressed, Mary 
re-stated that the risk was 
theoretical, not based on feedback from 
any applicant. She is willing to 
deceive me to get her way?

I think Mary is concerned about the 
appearance or perceived marketability 
of the kitchen and tries appeals to 
function and danger after appeals to 
authority fail. I believe she is 
prioritizing concerns about function 
below appearance. *I believe she is 
mistaken about the danger, utility, and 
cosmetics of the decisions I've made.*

# Preferred contract

Based on all available information, I 
believe Mary would prefer the following 
contract addendum:

"Mary must authorize all relocation of 
items in kitchen."

All items? Her items? Big items? That 
contract must specify a floorplan.

# Updates

**January 17, 2019:** Mary notified me 
that "I'm coming with George to do work 
today." That evening I found the 
refrigerator relocated, and the table 
moved over the garbage and recycling, 
making table, refrigerator, and garbage 
recepticals all unuseable. This is her 
preference?

**February 12, 2019:**

* I reported stove failure. I reported 
yesterday's zapping sound and smell of 
melted wires. I reported that the 
breaker did **not** throw into the off 
position, which strongly suggests 
replacing this breaker! She reported 
"not sure how long it's going to take." 
* She added, "In the future please do 
not move anything in the shared kitchen 
without asking me, your room is your 
private space." 
* I suggested a 
contract review together. The contract 
is on the refrigerator door. It 
mentions electricity billing costs, but 
doesn't specify terms for shared space.


**February 13, 2019:**

* My text to Mary: "Texts don't work 
for everything. Let's talk in person 
about this contract clarification. Use 
texts to notify me that you will enter 
this home, or want to send a 
candidate." 
* Mary's reply: "Can you 
send a pic of the stove and the back 
electric plug in, thanks."

So... I set a boundary, and she blew 
right through it. Again.

**February 15, 2019:**

Mary came by to examine the stove and note the plug type. I told her the breaker would also need replacement.
I told her there's no hurry. She didn't mention any other concern about the kitchen.

