# Welcome 

 - Emily Rose Murphy
 - Emily Murphy
 - Chloe E. Murphy
 - Chloe Murphy
 - John Randall Dempsey
 - John Dempsey
 - Tacoma
 - Seattle 

# See John

![](img/file0018.jpg)

My hair seems to be sideways. A falling bang and rising smirk.  

# Emily

Your eyes, each day's different hair, such glamour, even in a hospital gown, 
seeing humor, showing affection, dressed wild, or [to the 
nines](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/To_the_nines).

![](img/tonguebus.jpg)

Chloe, you were her top priority. She endured much for you, happily. You made 
her smile. She noticed you're a cool person early on. She said, "Everyone says 
their kid is cool, but mine really is. I really feel lucky to know her." I feel 
the same way.

![](img/mom_mirror.gif)


Emily laughed so much.  It's hard to find a picture where she isn't smiling. 
She joked around a lot, too. She and I shared a wild and goofy sense of humor.

![](img/em_skypes.gif)

# See Marines

She loved the Marines. She said it was where she saw the world as it is, the 
real world. What world did she see before she joined the Marines at the 
unusually young age of 17?

![](img/stand_em.gif)

Emily said Marines always carry a pencil and paper. What do you think of that 
idea?

![](img/runnin.jpg)

Em was shy when she was young. As a Marine on Okinawa, she got much bolder. 
Okinawa was full of Marines, mostly young men. She developed socially and 
professionally in the Marines. She learned to love sushi in Okinawa, which is 
part of Japan.

# See Before Lion's Gate

Remember the park up the alley from my first house? *Ally in the alley.* 

![](img/hideblanket.gif)

Chloe and Emily hide under the covers. I loved having a couch outside like 
that. So cozy when they weather's cool, just add some sun and feel fine.

![](img/dscn4426.jpg)

We could color on the walls in the two clubhouses. You called the big one "the 
book club" after that reading character, remember him?

I remember once I told you that house was torn down. It is gone now. You were 
sad it was gone, with all our memories there. But I moved on to Lion's Gate, 
where you met Coco and Kirara.

### Parks 

![](img/dscn3777.jpg)

Cynthia was your first friend out of the house. Once her mom invited us in. 
They lived next to this park, in the alley. Remember that gorilla pushing that 
frame sideways? You climbed up the back many times. We'd run in that field 
beyond.

When you and Emily came into my life, and would get me out to the park each 
Saturday and Sunday, I learned to have fun in parks again. They are great 
places. We went to many, as you may remember.

Once, when you were 2, we left a park. I rode you incredibly slowly on my 
bicycle to home. Emily just jogged along with us. I was able to "grab" you with 
my legs, so it was pretty safe, but at one point you seemed to... go... limp! 
You had fallen asleep on the bike after a long day at the park.

I sure loved all the parks we've visited, and all the fun we had, even making 
friends in the neighborhood. That was where you took your first ride down the 
slide, and first trip across the monkey bars. Em and I loved parks. (We loved 
coffeehouses with sandwiches and soup and a leather couch the most.) Around the 
outside of that park were stone pillars along the fence where you could climb. 
The cement on the pillars had toys and pictures glued in. Something to climb 
on. We spent so much time in the park.

**[Next...](two.html)**

<br>
