I've self-published my E&B Member story here: 
tucc.us/pain-and-privelege.html

In the early 90's I waited as a train passed slowly at Golden 
Gardens Park. I thought about placing my hands on the tracks for a 
quick double amputation to cut away the throbbing pain. But what 
would that solve? Later the pain spread to my neck and hips. It 
was clearly time to change direction.

I listened to the pain, and it taught me to avoid computer 
workstation use that most find typical. It taught me that even a 
short period of adverse use could injure me for weeks.

Now at home I use computers while laying in a hammock. Needing 
everything over my face, I built a workstation using a children's 
swingset, custom monitor frames on chains, plexiglass and clamps.

At work I have a wheelchair with a back at 45 degrees, and 
monitors facing down at almost a 45 degree pitch.

My challenge is the tightened politics around onsite activities. 
In my first onsite workstation in 2002, I closed an office door 
and slid onto a camping mattress under a desk, where I strapped in 
a monitor facing downward. Nobody cared. But the move to open 
offices has raised visibility, and heavy investment in standing, 
adjustable desks and better chairs has led many to believe the 
ergo risk has been solved. Maybe that's true for many, but not for 
me.

Lawyers often do their job by offering nothing and asking for 
everything. Lawyers for tech enterprises balance ADA requirements 
with liability fears and general anxiety about anything that's 
different. Many may think ergo risk has been solved. And I 
personally don't find the balance to be balanced.

I typically start a new job with pain, and negotiate for my needs 
against corporate pushback probably rooted in an abundance of 
caution about what may occur at a company facility. To really 
complicate things, each corporation has a different reason why I 
can't self-accomodate. Here's a summary of pushback I've 
encountered:

* "Everyone will want to work laying flat." - Zillow et al
* "You might take up more space." - Zillow
* "It's not safe." 
* "These aren't store-bought components." - Zillow
* "You cannot sit on anything but authorized furniture in this facility." - Zillow
* "Just work at home! Aren't you lucky? Now get off our property." - Zillow
* "Your agency needs to fix this to our satisfaction, and we 
aren't obligated to comply with the ADA, they are. We just want the labor!" - Default of every corporate client so far

Now I see my main problem as exclusion and complexity based on 
compensation category. The ADA forgot me. The law and my 
limitations set up a triangle: me, corporate lawyers (and 
facilities directors), and dinky agencies. I often see corporate 
clients choose to "take on" legal duties established by my 
Doctor's Note, but it rarely works well. In response to the note
specification that I lay flat while working, Zillow showed me 4 
chairs to choose from. I couldn't sit on anything outside a 
corporate catalogue of furnishings. My mom finally said, "get a 
wheelchair. They won't throw you out for sitting in a wheelchair." 
Thankfully, while not in the catalog, a wheelchair is allowed.
Mine pitches the back at 45 degrees. If I stretch my arms,
I'll fall backwards and get stuck. Only did that once.

My limitations are significant, but I believe it's my compensation 
category (non-FTE, waged-based, contracted-based, agency-employed 
labor) that makes me second-class, because the ADA was not made to 
operate in such scenarios. I avoid "adversity Olympics" where I 
compare limitations with anyone else, but have come to believe 
FTEs are better-protected than I am by governing law in both 
letter and spirit. Ironically, my disabilities are a major barrier 
for me to attaining FTE employment. I can apparently reach the top 
of my employment field without an ability to gain the protections 
that reach FTEs through the ADA. I don't think corporations employ 
wage labor through agencies to avoid the more complex ADA 
obligations and cases, but it does work out that way.

In my own case, I was prohibited from access to the worksite for a 
month. I was also denied access to work. I studied the law that 
should govern all employer decisionmaking when assessing a risk 
posed by a disability (or its accomodation):

"The ADA allows an employer to refuse to hire individuals who pose 
a _direct threat_ to the health or safety of themselves or others. 
A direct threat means a 'significant risk of substantial harm.' 
Employers have legitimate concerns about maintaining a safe 
workplace for all employees and members of the public. In some 
instances, the nature of a particular person's disability may 
cause an unacceptable risk of harm from the employer's 
perspective."

I write this to make sure you know your disability is only a fair 
cause for denying you employment when it meets the _direct threat_ 
standard. I never have met this standard. If you are hourly through an agency, you're probably 
screwed no matter what the law is, but allies might commit 
this standard to memory, as I did during the month I lost here.

