Chloe called me dad consistently from age 3 - 6. 
Only when placed in Donna's custody did she return 
to John, which she also used when she was 2.

"Grandma says Mom doesn't go to church because 
they took out the part of her brain that makes her 
want to go to church." - Feb or Mar 2014. This is 
the kind of "believe what I prefer to believe" 
thinking Donna specializes in. It is untrue and 
unfair.

Darin gave full support for adoption during 
November 2013 meeting.

Emily, Chloe and I enjoyed visiting Festival of 
Dance Improvisation (SFADI) in Capitol Hill, 
Seattle each Sunday, where we and other families 
developed movement awareness and trust in a bright 
studio with a mirror wall. (I have been a member 
of this dance group for eleven years.) It is 
clearly absolutely foreign and frightening to 
Chloe that upon her mother's death, her 
interaction with me is heavily regulated and 
limited. She's accustumed to gymnastic activities 
with me. I've done my best to comply with CFS 
guidelines about contact, but my primary goal has 
been to meet Chloe's emotional need for 
reassurance in this difficult period. It's telling 
that this report contains a high number of 
reported violations of contact policy, all of 
which begin with Chloe approaching me. She clearly 
enjoys dancing and derives comfort and joy from 
the experience. This visit was not unusual in this 
respect. The only change is that Sarah chose to 
pile on every perceived violation of the policy. 
(Which only explicitly applies to lap-sitting.)

I did not, and do not, add any information beyond 
what Chloe says about her future plans. The 
quotation is incorrect. Chloe said she wanted to 
live in the same house, and I affirmed I would 
like that, too. I did not add "the same house"; it 
was in her original statement. I also strongly 
support her claims of independence, and her wishes 
for her adulthood. I have never suggested--not in 
all my life--what she might do when she's an 
adult, except attend college and establish a 
career. But when she asserts that freedom can be 
hers at a certain age, I hear a child longing for 
her choices to be in her control, and 
philosophically I have a tough time failing to 
validate that thinking.

"When I first got to grandmas I had nightmares. 
When I am old enough to choose where I live I will 
live with you in Seattle."

Story In sand sculptures: "the queen died and the 
castle fell on the king and the princess."

"You should get a job like Daniel (a child play 
psychotherapist) so you can help other kids. "
