## Words

There was even an interesting time where I tried 
to accept Emily's choice of Donna over Darin. I 
couldn't do it. I had to do something to prevent 
Chloe from being raised by Donna. Obviously their 
skillfulness with fear-mongering and hysteria, and 
probably my laid-back nature didn't help. The city 
tried to chew me up. If a preponderance of 
evidence says I'm just too damn different, and 
Donna's actually Donna Reed, then fuck me with a 
2x4. That's the whole dumb case in the whole dumb 
court. I'll stand for that verdict. Because it 
will also be made clear that Darin Murphy abused 
his daughter as she died.

# See into the weeds

I want to clarify I point that might seem 
confusing at first: From April to November, 2013, 
I tried to persuade Emily to specify Darin and 
Mariela as Chloe's guardians. I failed to persuade 
her. She knew her dad had serious emotional 
problems, and I just didn't see it from a 
distance. She said she had to go with her gut. She 
said Donna would do anything for Chloe. And she 
said, near November 12th, 2013, "If you don't like 
it, change it. Come to Tacoma, and be the 
guardian." When I accepted that offer a week 
later, it was Emily who had persuaded me. I had 
failed to persuade her. I said I would try ONE 
TIME and I did try. I failed, and changed to a 
position of supporting whatever she wants, as long 
as she wants it, until the day she changes her 
mind. I hope you consider this position to be the 
precise formula of unconditional love. I am deeply 
offended by the various spins used to make it 
sinister, but I'm used to feeling deeply offended 
by this family of jackels.

# See thankfully, it's written down

In her letter, Andrea Mattson asserts that a 
savage sex assault occurred either December 1st, 
or January 2nd. In her two calls to CPS, she 
asserts the assault took place January 1st. Ms. 
Mattson says she has a detailed scheduling method. 
Chloe and I arrived in Mexico on Christmas, and 
left Mexico on January 1st, during a ferocious 
rainstorm. All three dates are impossible. Is she 
my accusor?

My dialogue with Emily began in her hospital room 
in March, 2013. Quite a few turning points 
transpired, including lies that persuaded Emily 
that Donna was not trustworthy and Darin was 
scheming. I can recount the specific statements 
and events that made this clear to Emily. Let me 
know if you'd like to know exactly what was said 
to and by me and Emily in our interactions with 
Donna and Darin during these "early months" prior 
to November, 2013.

Chloe launched my change of heart when she asked 
me to "Write another story called 'Chloe and John 
: our future togEther'"

Candace Zygar claims Chloe is "nervous, etc" in my 
care, and that I am "a social reject". Now over 
100 pages of visit reports contradict her first 
claim. 

<center>[EmilyRoseClub](/)
